Hi, this is a channel for operational information for the 2nd course of the FCN PI. \pPo, you can get into the general chat using the discuss button.\pI in the channel and in the chat there will be employees of the Training Office, take this into account\n\Pet channel and chat will allow you to be in touch quickly, especially on the eve of the protection of the Kyrgyz Republic and other things.\Add your classmates \nP. S. And add yourself to the chat using the Discussion button. This is also important
Andrey, thank you! 👌🏻
Dear students, good afternoon!\ pT to some of your statements about the replacement of the topic/head of the KR, unfortunately, remained on Pokrovka, please re-send me applications by email if something has changed, especially if you see an old topic in the LMS. In a copy of the letter with the application-the head, Shilov V. V., Shulyak O. V.\My work will be easier if you duplicate the title of the work in Russian and English in the letter, or send the application in the word format 🙂
Yes, come on !all those who are planning a shift, will send applications by the end of this week
Thanks
Dear students! I sent a reminder to group emails about applications for changing topics/managers! Please read it carefully! \n/O. V./ I
remind you about the deadline for submitting an application for changing the topic/head-tomorrow before 15.00
This supervisor is a formal one, not an actual one
I answered in the bos
Guys,\Pakhapkin Andrey and Kalantaev Maxim are there?
And silence)
Are they not in the group?
Thanks
Good evening! Is it possible, despite the transfer of the summer internship to the next year, it will be possible to credit the internship that I managed to get to now?
The same question, but instead of an internship, is it possible to use this year's online beta testing. Before the new order, it was developed for the current practice.
Good afternoon! There is nowhere to set off, there is no practice, there is no reporting. Everything is postponed to next summer. So far, we have recommendations to transfer the practice completely for all students of the stream
And what will it look like in practice in this case? Will the practice after the 3rd course simply go with the weight of the assessment doubled, or will it be necessary to do double work?
There will be no need to do double work, there will be one practice with one set of documents. Maybe more than two weeks.
Thank you for the information
Is Navin Yadav in the chat?
A request to the classmates present: ask Navin to write to me, let him get in touch
Thanks)
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1CS7jzEBm1TvcKhkuRdujylw7ECbUuQpVmg-q1vMMKSc/htmlview#
a month early
It will be there, guys, a little later\pI links to the conference
Good afternoon! Tell me, please, where can I find the number of the order on the approval of the topics of the term papers?
I'll reset it soon
I posted the materials in the LMS. Including the name of the order (item 1.2 Orders)
well, thank you
I duplicate the information sent to group emails.\ Dear students, good afternoon! \n\n On the eve of the course work protection, we notify you that if, due to the quarantine measures introduced, you have circumstances that prevent the implementation of the course work/ project, it is necessary to discuss these problems with the head of the work as soon as possible (via electronic correspondence), and upon receiving a reasoned conclusion from the head about the need to postpone the implementation of the KR/protection of the KR, inform me (forward the correspondence) with a copy of the letter from the academy. ruk-l-Shilov V. V.\n\n! You can only inform us about any problems that have occurred until May 09, inclusive.
#IMPORTANT
Order of the Dean of the Faculty of Computer Science I. V. Arzhantsev \On the approval of the topics, course work managers of students of the educational program "Software Engineering" of the Faculty of Computer Science\ No. 2.3-02/1112-04 from 11.12.2019
1. Students upload materials to the LMS the day before the defense, including the review\n2. Managers send feedback to V. V. Shilov\n3. On the eve of the commission's work, V. V. Shilov confirms the availability of reviews and sends them to the secretary of the commission \n4. The secretary of the commission checks the availability of all documents in the LMS. \n5. Members of the commission download archives with student materials from projects in LMS\n6. The UO manager records students for a certain time slot in the table. One slot - 20 min. \n7. There are three people in the commission - the chairman, the secretary, a member of the commission \n8. The protection tool is zoom. The manager of the UO PI sends a link to the conference to the students by mail, enters it in the table with the lists of students, in the tg channel\n... 10) The secretary of the commission draws up statements and passes them to the UO PI\n11) The students ' grades will be entered in the table with the lists of students.
If the protection is on the 14th, when is the download deadline? 12 or 13?
And then you need to upload the PZ to the antiplagiat before 10.05 23:59?
per day. On the morning of the 13th. Otherwise, the secretaries and members of the commission do not have the opportunity to prepare for the work of the commission
+?
Or on the 11th (3 days in advance)
The manager should have time to write a review, right? For a review, he needs to know the percentage of anti-plagiarism. Everything together should be ready and uploaded to the LMS a day before protection. Hence - all the dates.
Changes in the TOR in connection with the distance learning form
In the morning, it's up to how much?
up to 10-30
try to make it in time
Is this a straight hard deadline? What is uploaded after will not be checked, or is it from the category of desirable?
Desirable deadline
OK, I'll try to make it in time
Dear students! 1) The document The text of the program must be necessarily designed according to GOST and uploaded to the LMS. 2) The source code of the program can not be uploaded to the LMS as an archive, instead you can give a link to github. The link should be included (a) in the presentation and (b) in the document \Program text\ in the Introduction paragraph.
Can I have an example of the program text with a link ? And where should I include it in the presentation ?
In the TP, instead of the entire code, insert the sentence \The source code can be found at the link ...\?
Armen, is it difficult to insert a link? Do you necessarily need an example? An example of a TP document is available in the LMS. In the presentation-in the results obtained or in the selected tools. If there is no repository on Github, then we don't do any of this. I wrote \possible\, not \necessary\
NO. The code must be issued according to GOST. Link to git-optional
A, that is, this is a code + link
Kr Kupriyanova for 18 years, 3rd year
code + link. The link is one line in the document. So that the commission can view the code.
#important
Dear students! Hurry up with uploading materials to the LMS!!!
The secretaries of the commissions have started working with your materials
Did I understand correctly that the presentation can be uploaded to the lms immediately before the defense?
Yes, you can upload the presentation later
Thanks!
Is it possible to record a presentation with a speech before the defense, and then show it during the defense ?
There were no precedents. And what is the reason for this?
It's easier this way, you're less nervous, you can tell it better
Ask the commission
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS7jzEBm1TvcKhkuRdujylw7ECbUuQpVmg-q1vMMKSc/edit?usp=sharing
Is it possible to correct the PZ after uploading to the antipligiat?
IMPORTANT!!! The IEEE 1471 standard [6] “software architecture / system architecture " defines architecture as the basis for the organization of a system, which describes the relationship between the components of this system, defines the structure and principles of development. - what is the program architecture? Frequently asked question on the defense!!! are
Sukhovitsky and Mukhin in the chat?
Muzin and Sukhovitsky also have no documents uploaded to the LMS.
Good afternoon! Has the meeting of the 4th Commission started yet?
I can't connect yet, so I ask
at 10-30
It is written that the beginning is at 10
I apologize then
Where is it written?
At the start time of the conference, if you go to it before it starts
This is for the gathering of commission members, checking the connection and the first discussions for students, all commissions on May 12, 14 and 21 begin at 10.30
you can, under your full name
In the second commission, 2 students joined the conference. We are waiting for the others. No need to wait for your time, come in now.
Good afternoon! Please tell me, where can I find a template for a review of a research supervisor for a research course work?
in the LMS
section 6 Preparation for protection
Thanks a lot
Can I see the protection records?
No
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS7jzEBm1TvcKhkuRdujylw7ECbUuQpVmg-q1vMMKSc/edit?usp=sharing
>
no, it is no longer possible. What happened? Explain what the need is.
Instead of \content\, I wrote \table of contents\ and a couple more minor errors
This is not terrible at all, it can be corrected.
Well
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS7jzEBm1TvcKhkuRdujylw7ECbUuQpVmg-q1vMMKSc/edit#gid=1175109723
Do you have to sit in the zoom from the very beginning of the commission's work, or do you just have to make it to your turn?
make it to your turn, but there may be shifts due to non-attendance
Great thanks
follow the ads, we usually write here if there is a time shift
Good afternoon! Andrey Gruzdev, Said Dagalaev, Victoria Smyshlyaeva and Anton Kazakov did not agree on the review with V. V. Shilov. Contact the managers so that they send him feedback.
Igor Egorov could not find a document on anti-plagiarism in the LMS.
I join Alice Valeryevna,\n \ pZakirullin Daniil\PT Also, you do not have a presentation loaded and the result of anti-plagiarism in the LMS\n\n In the absence of a review, we will not be able to allow you to defend, for this the supervisor should send feedback to Shilov V. V,
I received the review at 00: 47, V. V. Shilov in a copy of the letter
Antonova - the head of the Kyrgyz Republic is not specified in the review
?
specify the full name
Gruzdev Andrey Nikolaevich
We found all the reviews. Thanks.
IMPORTANT!!! Commission 3-the link to the conference is changing
Where's the new one?
In the table
Changed
525065-password, conference ID 948 4316 2669
https://zoom.us/j/94843162669?pwd=bGpPVzRpcHRxRmRhZ3RGdXpERE1nQT09
STUDENTS!!! no need to waste time on relevance! Briefly. No need to read the slides!
Grinkrug E. M. - I would ask all clients who have an archive > 30 Mb to break it into parts (documents with a review, everything else) so that they can work. Larger archives indicate a lack of understanding of elementary things and thus prevent getting a good grade
I'm sorry, but aren't the protections open to all students?
Why? Open
I waited 10 minutes for what is in 1 what is in 2 commissions
They don't let you
into what commission?
These 2 days
we have a lot of students in the commission who are not defending themselves today
Yes, there are guests in our 3 conference
And they don't let you in there...
okay..
Come in with the correct names - full name and group
Everyone with the correct names is allowed in
I'll fix it now, spasmbo
I have more guests than defenders
Pinganite, if you come in, I sometimes don't notice
That's it, I already understood, I just didn't have a group number
Thanks
And when will the commission's conference 2 resume?
We have already finished, you have n / I put down
Before my protection time is still 10 minutes,
follow the ads, we usually write here if there is a time shift
What are you explaining to me? I said as is
Yes, I understand
What happened?
I enter the conference 20 minutes before the start of my defense, and the conference is already over
There was no information about the shift,
wait for
Melikhedov, they will hear you now
Okay, thanks
Are you ready to defend yourself? The commission is refunded)
Yes
How do I contact the commission? I was told that I was given 4 for the work done and I want to know why.
Fuuh, it's good that everything was resolved
Write an email to all members of the commission
We are ready to listen to you, come in
You'll be there in 10 minutes
🔔 All scores for the defense on May 14 are displayed in the table
In the LMS, the project for submitting the presentation separately ends on May 19 at midnight. Is it possible to upload it along with the documentation, but the day before the defense (May 21)?
Yes, I didn't notice, I'll fix the
Guys who uploaded the CD to anti-plagiarism today. For technical reasons, you will not be able to upload a report with a qr code yet. Inform the manager if necessary.
Do I understand correctly that this project (which expires in 20 minutes) is optional if the presentation is in combination with the rest of the files?
Yes, that's right. I'll correct the date, it's wrong
.
Since yesterday, the anti-plagiarism has not yet checked the work. What to do?
This is understandable, but what to do? It is impossible to write a review
Dear students, the anti-plagiarism has earned, I have reloaded your reports to everyone. You can already receive it and send it to the manager for feedback.
is it still possible to upload to anti-plagiarism? I just just discovered that it is necessary 3 days before the defense,
And the
main thing is that the review was
For a day
and the presentation file and the review can not be inserted here?
Yes
ok, thank you
You can upload the presentation later
And if my supervisor does not respond from the moment I receive the anti-plagiarism sheet, can I somehow upload everything without a review, and send it tomorrow?
Yes
\ Grinkrug E. M. - I would ask all clients who have an archive > 30 Mb to break it into parts (documents with a review, everything else) so that they can work. Larger archives indicate a lack of understanding of elementary things and thus prevent getting a good grade\\n\n Does this mean that you can upload 2 parcels to the lms project and not be afraid that they will be evaluated only on the last one
Yes, you can upload two or more archives. During the defense, you can answer questions about the contents of the archives
Thanks
The secretaries are unloading all the archives! Therefore, it is better to remove the excess
Good morning, everyone!\n\pMakarov Vladimir \Pbalakhontsev Mikhail\pZaydulin Artem\Pkhasanov Omar\n\n Do you plan to defend yourself? Without uploading the documentation to the LMS, you will not be allowed to defend yourself, due to the fact that the commission will not have access to your documents, I remind you that you had to upload the documents a day before the defense.... If you still plan to defend yourself, you need to URGENTLY upload the documents to the LMS and write to me in the bos about downloading, otherwise you will not be allowed.
Tag your friends if you know the nicknames
Good morning! Ekaterina Panova did not upload the materials to the lms. Are you planning to perform today?
Hello! Students Daniel Sharafyan, Yaroslav Ryabtsev - I don't see your works in LMS!\ Pkorshikov Fyodor, Ryabtsev Yaroslav - there is no review of the head! \Will you defend yourself today?
Olga Zaikova does not open some of the documents in the archive. Double-check and download again.
The group of Imamov, Manuylov, Pleshkov and Akhapkin ask the head to send feedback to V. V. Shilov.
Hello! What doesn't open? Everything opens for me, I checked it
And we can send and put the manager in a copy ourselves?
No
Part of the word files. And their names are strange.
And why can't he send it himself?
I downloaded all the Word files converted to pdf
He's not online right now
I'll take a look now
Cherkassov Andrey! You have only one abstract file from all the documentation! Is this how it should be ? I don't see any other documents in the LMS..
It's fine now.
We are waiting for it to appear.
He has appeared, he will send letters now
Sent
Great!
Yegor Matveev, the folder with files does not open. Check and reload the archive.
I'll do it now I
filled it again
I'll take a look now
The presentation was just filled in as a separate project \presentation of the kr\ in the lms
Understood, thank you! everything is OK
Hello, I have already uploaded the work
I don't see it
now?
Yes, I downloaded it!
It doesn't open
It freezes and everything
let's try it through rar
, please look, I filled it in RAR
Everything is fine now.
Fedor Korshikov! Please respond, there is no your review! are you planning to defend yourself?
he is in the 4th year, I will write now
Oh! I just received an email from the manager!! (with a copy to V. V. Shilov).
Yevgeny Gerasimenko is performing soon, we are waiting for him
Well) I wrote to him this morning
If you plan to defend yourself, please connect - now it will be your turn!
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS7jzEBm1TvcKhkuRdujylw7ECbUuQpVmg-q1vMMKSc/edit#gid=1175109723
Good evening, and when will it be possible to get acquainted with the full list of elective courses?
Good evening!In connection with the transition of some disciplines to a distance format, a campaign to choose courses will be organized at the end of June, or already in early September. So far, such deadlines are being reported
Good evening! Could you please describe in more detail how many courses we will need to choose? Just two (one of the nis, and the other of those marked \by choice\) or a different number?
Good evening.\fri. e. next year, the dist may continue. training? of
elective disciplines 2 per year (exam for one in module 2, for the second - in 4). And 1 NIS (exam in module 3)
+ minor :)
There is no answer to this question yet.
Yes, two disciplines per year
Good afternoon.
This is the question that, they think, worries the majority.\n\If my entire system will fly? The computer will explode because of the exam or the electricity will be cut off or something, what should I do then?
information about this will be sent out 2 weeks before the exam
It's just that there's nothing in the FAQ about this that was thrown to us by mail.
recommendations on this matter are available on the HSE website
https://www.hse.ru/studyspravka/distance_stud_prquestions
https://www.hse.ru/studyspravka/distcontrol take a
look here
Can someone explain the rules of our exam on operating systems? The teacher at the lectures said that you can use any paper media, but there is a ban on this in the examus. How will everything really be?
It says there that it is possible.
That is, the exam will not end by itself.\n \ n Even if it is marked as a violation, then our teachers will also make a decision.\n\The exam will not be taken for this.
This is another matter, thank you, Nikolai Konstantinovich.
Good afternoon!\n Is it possible to use a phone camera as a camera for proctoring?
No, you just won't pass the Examus system check
I mean, use it as an external webcam, and not log in separately from your phone and broadcast video from it to Examus.
This is technically impossible, Examus is not Zoom
What exactly is impossible? Using a webcam that is not built into the computer in Examus, or using the phone's camera as a webcam?
About the first, the instructions say about the \ webcam, including the built-in laptops\, which is why I decided that external ones can also be used
Using a camera that is not connected to a computer (or built-in)
Alexandrov?
yes
Yes 🤦
🏼  ♀ ️
remind me tomorrow
Yes
I'm not from this nisa, but
yes,
the defense is scheduled for 12 in the morning, we are now able to make a presentation at night.. Or not?) I
'm waiting, but I'm afraid that I won't get an answer so quickly.
Have you just received a letter? Why did you apply so late?
He had been ignoring it for a week before
So they wrote to him earlier
Yes, this was just announced in our discord
For more than a week,
everything is clear. I will inform you the result we are
developing stress resistance. we have managed with Tents for 44 people, and we will cope here )
on May 23, the question on the nisa was asked, on May 31, it was duplicated, the answer on June 1 at 22: 39 (to clarify the situation)
Has something become clear on this issue?
it seems that the teacher allowed it without prez
Can I learn more? Who asked the question, how?
Is there any material on NIS in the LMS or somewhere? or was something laid out somewhere else?
Were you supposed to send links to projects? To what address? Send me your sent letters the
teacher claims that at the end of the 3rd module he told you that if you want to protect the project in April-May, contact him personally. Is there this message somewhere? Are there any appeals to the teacher?
Yes, he wrote that protection is in the summer, but you can protect yourself earlier.
About the links to the projects, D. V. said yesterday or today, already when it turned out that the protection is at 12.
\The exam date has been agreed. Project protection-before the exam.\If there is a project, I will evaluate it without a presentation by looking at the code.\ Do
you have any projects?
I have, but without a presentation
About the protection of projects in July - it was a joke, right? You didn't want to defend the projects after the session, did you? the
presentation is not needed, as far as I understand. Did you send the project to the teacher?
This theoretically makes sense, but in fact it turns out that we will learn about the protection of projects in a few hours.
There was no mention of July anywhere at all, it seems.
I'm doing it now
About July-in the screenshot that you just sent here
complicated
There was about summer, I can't find anywhere about July the
first message is Mikhail Chelbaev And the protection of projects is also in July?
And it's summer today
I think this is a typo
I think it's a typo
There was just a constant ignore and there was no information about even possible armor protection, and in the end it turned out that even if you want to show your project on defense, then most likely you will not have time
Well, "summer" is not the date of protection
The session hasn't started yet
so. We have gathered, the exam is tomorrow, there is still time today. If I understand correctly, you can just send the code, the teacher wrote that he would check it and give an assessment, even without protection.
The exam is today
At 15: 10
It turns out that we have an exam before the session, and the protection of projects should be before the exam,
this is your text. The exam was agreed upon, you yourself admitted it. Does it happen that the project is defended after the exam? \
June 3 is already tomorrow (Wed).\ - it seems that this is the date of the exam?
Well, the teacher did not answer questions about the defense at all, although he was asked them more than once
No, the exam is today, June 2
The problem is that we didn't get an answer when the defense. We were frozen for a week with this issue. About the fact that the defense is strictly before the exam - this may have been mentioned somewhere by the teacher, but it is not clearly indicated as a given
Taimuraz, give an example, when some other form of control is carried out after the exam? Protection, counter. work, etc.? It
is clear that it is bad not to answer questions. But it is better to ask such questions in the corporate mail. For the future
Well, in the classroom, we agreed that it is more convenient for both the teacher and us to write to discord
First-year Algebra Colloquium
I'll connect Sergey Mikhailovich here, so as not to forward the conversation to him, okay?
Well
I support it
+
Sergey Mikhailovich will be here in a while, not right now. He's still busy.
If a conflict is brewing, it is better to use corporate mail
Well, formally it turns out that the exam is agreed in the RUZ, and the project, of course, before the exam.\n\nNo actually since March we have received one and a half messages from D. V., the exam is held before the session, we learned about the format yesterday at 9 pm, the first message about the protection of projects since March from D. V. was yesterday at 10-11 pm.\n\nThe date of the exam was really agreed, and probably the defense should really be conducted before the exam. But this does not mean that the other control elements do not need to be coordinated.
OK, accepted
Another question is, what should I do if the teacher has scheduled the defense for 12, but some have a pair at 12: 10?
Inform the teacher in the corporate mail, put me, V. V. Shilov and Oksana Vladimirovna in a copy.
Rimma Zakievna, the deadline for the contest today is at 23: 59 in the lms, and in the contest itself at 13:00 tomorrow, which of them to believe, thank you in advance
Contest, it can't be moved
To believe the contest itself
, thank you again,
no proctoring. Log in to the LMS and take the test
Thanks
By the way, the examus demo does not work
I'm thinking of giving you the opportunity to choose the time-2, 3 or 4 pairs. How do you feel about this?
just like examus himself
And how long will it last?))
Okay, thanks)
Great idea!
well, it's not complicated, it seems to me. In the first semester, you had a more difficult one,
then wait!
and how to be taken into account in the assessment for seminars?
Up to 20 points I decided
Just a second
Zhenya, take it away, I need the full name of those who will come
And it will be possible to write a test for any of the pairs?
Yes, of course
Zhenya, take it away, I'll send you a link to the table now
Rimma Zakievna, and there is no such functionality that a student comes at some time, presses a button and the test opens well for him for an hour 20
In the range of these pairs there is
no
=(
Ehhhh
And a cool function would be... Useful...
and on Saturday there will be a test for other groups? or should everyone who wants to write tomorrow?
Yes, let's hold it on Saturday as well
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LbuiegJ_d_oYEOYkBpVa2X-I_0JsNLv7TXRBF8I-xXA/edit?usp=sharing
The demo will work at a certain time specified in the newsletter
Will there be a seminar on algorithms tomorrow? A test on a separate pair or instead of a regular seminar?
No, it won't, I've announced it many times. Instead of the usual seminar
Rimma Zakievna, there are sooo many questions in the disk.
Sooooo.
I'm really waiting for you there.
Very*
Has anyone tried to go to the trial examus? it does
not work
My mail does not include
++
The problems started at stage -1
, too, does not enter, the wrong username/password
well, goes in orange and writes cho ex did not start
so it is written that it is necessary for blue)))))))
I would rather write a real exam there))
+
and the blue one simply does not enter
So and on the blue one it says about the entrance exams
I stupidly have no exams anywhere, in any way and never
on the blue it is written \hse sessions\
Well, did
you use your password to log in, or is mail everywhere?
I had a blue button about entrance exams
in the yellow one, I went to the mail password from online xse
you went to the wrong place\ \
there
There.
Re-entered, now the blue one is about
the session hse.student.examus.net
But he doesn't let byada
in
He does not let either by mail-mail, or by mail-password\A good SYSTEM AND INTERESTING CONTESTS
And is there a possibility, before it's too late, to change the system of conducting exams in our course? Or if you suffer, then all together? :)
let's all together ask the lecturer on OSes to cancel proctoring,
let's
Proctoring is good
But broken proctoring is even better
Fair
Support
The question is how to ask? it's not like he can spam his mail
Let's just send the work to the lms
Ask for an appointment in zuum
And to talk to
the post office from the elders of the letter
Yes
*When LMS became a good system)))
ahahahah ahahahah
AHAHAHAH
Everything is known in comparison )))
I'm in two messengers now I won't even have time to click on the chat. Wait I'll answer everyone
And I don't even have time to read ))
I wrote about the problems of the examus in the chat of the 1st year to Oksana Vladimirovna. I think there is no need to duplicate it here
Gentlemen who wrote to the address help examus net. In response, they send links to a non-off resource on the tilde and ask you to download an exe file. I'm not hinting at anything, but examus works without installation and it looks like a malicious resource
lol it looks like it comes in if you switch to the English version
and it comes in Russian, everything is ok
and nice
What is the point of proctoring on axes, if we can use materials in theory?))
if the yellow button is selected?
the blue one
beep the blue one
it seems to have started working
I am told that within 5 minutes everyone will be able to log in
that nothing is active is it ok?
I'm here 👋
You've got the wrong place Mabie
So, do we have a problem?
They say that everything will be solved within 5 minutes
But initially there were a lot of them. In the chat of the 1st course, they are described
Let's not decide))))
Try to authorize yourself again
Still, an incorrect login-password
seems to have successfully entered
there you need to enter the login as a password\pmb this is the problem
It didn't work that way either
+ in
short, the people from the examus campaign to prevent overloading
they let several people in
Will it also be on the exams? 🌚 does
it work like this or not?)))) I
bet a hundred rubles that the examus will fall on the operating system exam when 140 people enter it,
someone works, someone does not
Today the test is for the entire fcn, no wonder
It will be interesting to see how
they once again prove that their system does not stand up
Nervous?
our nervous system will not stand it
Gentlemen, we enter our mail in both fields and now everything should work
on the exam, will there be the same questions? The
father of Russian cryptography
I can't physically sit in a state where my face is completely visible in the camera and when I see what is written on the screen. That is, I can do it with my chest pressed against the table, but a) it hurts me, b) I can't type the answer (I don't have the skill of blind printing), c) I won't be able to write on the written exam. And what should I do?
his ideas will always be relevant
Is there any way to get around this point if I am not physically in the Russian Federation and I do not know when my letter will arrive, if it is sent ?
This is not something to fill in
And the scan does not need to be sent ?
They say that they added 30 minutes of the test and everything should work
Works
Thank you :)
They won't let me in
Do you enter your email in the password?
Did you choose the HSE session at the entrance?
Yes
Yes
Give me your full name
I even have a camera turned on
Danil Petrov
And stop
So you came in?
What's on the screen
You don't need to write any letters about the data processing agreement
Try to get out of the examus
Close the tab
And go to snlva
Yegor Bad
And this is really necessary to fill out a consent for processing
And go to the post office?
Go to the important
The input does not work
Oh, OK
Okay, okay.
Help please
What do you have
clean the cache and try again
The same thing
What's the problem
And after what does the webcu turn on?
There is a question about these icons. When they are gray, then these actions are prohibited, and if the green type, then it is possible?
I click pass the trial ex
I'll find out now
I asked about your problem. While we wait
Thank you
, it seems to be yes, in the letter, in any case, they explained it that way
Danil,
So. I also received a reply to another letter. Maybe this is an official thing. But it's still very strange
It's about this
Dear students, the process of issuing certificates has been suspended since the moment of quarantine. If you need a certificate, fill out the Google / form, please, as before, if a certificate without a signature and seal is suitable for you, Galina Sergeevna Katsnelson can send it to you by mail (write to her). If a scanned version of the certificate is vital, write about it to Galina Sergeevna, it will take time, but it is possible to provide you with a scanned version of the certificate.\ Pcharacteristics are also not issued yet, they will all be centrally transferred to the VUC later in due time. The characteristics are signed by Tatyana Albertovna Pak, so you can write to her if you really need a scan.
If I passed the test, does it mean that everything is OK with me?
Dear students! I remind you that the SOP questionnaires are available in the LMS until tomorrow to choose the best teacher and to evaluate the disciplines of the 4th module!! Participation in the SOP is MANDATORY!!!

https://t.me/joinchat/ChAQxFh44MPvcHxmgp9nzg
Correction. There WERE defenses, but the review was sent almost on time and the defenses were announced, however, ahem, in 20 minutes.\n \ pI yes, the defenses disappeared over time, only the controversial ones were defended.
Dim, Dim, they have a different teacher, after all
Oh, oh, you're talking about our, for sure, yes
)))
Dima, and what's this for now? You're just from the group where the reports were accepted
I'm talking about this, that we still had protection.
But yes, we were warned on time.
So it's not about your group...
and not for 2 months.
But they said about our one.
I have just been openly accused of plagiarism to my face, because I do not remember the condition of the task that I submitted on May 11 and which is based on the task given in general somewhere in April, is this normal ?
Do I have a hard drive to remember everything ?
This is just a cringe of some kind of teacher, who is not as competent as possible,
some common feature of teachers along the axes, apparently: (
It seems to me that if there are no decisions made by the training office, then this is a qc for the whole course
At least we were not accused of plagiarism
At least to the topic by groups that have Kuliyev
yes, but they dug up everything to what you can
and -30% points for work, as a rule, by default
We were at least canceled at the end of the defense\pKstati said there would be a recalculation of points, without the point \ originality\, it seems to me that it was not
I want to write an article about operating systems
Well, no, Anton, I'm sorry, but ours is much more adequate.
Evgeny, I'll be waiting.
We ask
I'll read it with pleasure.
Oh, I can even add
You have a great talent for writing articles.
This whole course is simply riddled with inadequacy
By the type of aisd in the first semester?
Impressions are only negative
even better
I wrote to him about it.
The second
one? Hyhy
Lectures are top
But I did not see the recalculation.
Did he say anything?
Lectures + - norms
And in this chat there are representatives of the training office or someone else from the management
?
Yes
Check the admins I
hope there will be some kind of reaction )
And not only
I communicate with Oksana Vladimirovna in the BOS. Oksana Vladimirovna said that she would talk to the teacher
By the way, he records the defenses, so you can ask him for records and it's just clearly visible that the teacher is putting pressure on the students, because we are supposedly not happy with the fact that we were told about the defenses 20 minutes before the last seminar
For 1.5 hours for your subgroup
well, yes ) this is better )
I agree here
But I found out about it from a phone call, and only after I directly asked a question (Kuliyev read the same question by mail and ignored it ).\pKst he called me accidentally confusing my number with the numbers of another headman
and I was surprised
when you wrote that he accidentally called
We are waiting for what will happen after Oksana Vladimirovna's letter
AND WHERE IS IT VISIBLE?))))))
Well, xs\n Maybe he just answered your email, didn't he?))))))
That's his answer, Lisa.
And, the meme\pNu here before the recalculation, he put me 36 for the last lab\n After the recalculation, there were 36 left
I have it everywhere.
Now I have asked for his conference.
Well, not now.
And yesterday.
There is no response.
I'm sorry, I understand your attitude, but at seminars he notes attendance, and at the first seminar he was given such an order that he sent it-he must protect
And exactly on the next one another
And the fact that attendance is being evaluated was not indicated or said anywhere
No, but it is necessary to go to seminars - he himself said this
And I have, this is just an example
We will write to him again.
Just to be honest, our group was aware of this, like from the 1st seminar, when someone defended himself
without an official letter to the Corp.mail-there is unlikely to be a reaction.
I mean, there were no words from him that you can not go to semy
Oksana Vladimirovna said that she would write to
colleagues, this issue is not in the jurisdiction of the educational institution, please contact the head of the department leading the discipline and the academic supervisor

colleagues, I have been seeing for five years how students are trying to blame the training office for everything or to achieve a solution to all your problems by their own efforts, these are holy people with a limited list of responsibilities, and most importantly, opportunities, at least everything that happens in the classroom is absolutely not their area of responsibility. I recommend in this situation to write an official letter yourself and attach the curator of the 2nd course S. A. Shershakov to the case
👌
These will be representatives of 1C
Do you already have an approximate curriculum?
there is an abstract, in the training office there should be
What should I do if a face and a table do not fit into the camera during proctoring at the same time? Plus, in order to see the edge of the table, you have to tilt the laptop screen too much, which makes it uncomfortable to look at it
happy, the face fits...
And there are such requirements?
I don't know, that's why I asked
It seems that the camera only has restrictions on megapixels
Good afternoon! We will soon need to choose specializations for the next 2 years. For \ Industrial Software Engineering\ there is a selection in the form of a test and an interview. What happens if you don't pass it? Will there be a choice of elective courses from the general pool on the same terms as for those who have not chosen any specialization? Or will they get courses based on the residual principle - those that still have places?
Veronika Lvovna sent you a letter with an announcement today. The choice of specializations is not required and if you do not pass, you will choose from the Disciplines of your choice section. Only it is not yet clear exactly when, in September or a little earlier. We will inform you... That
is, the choice of courses OUTSIDE of specializations will take place later than the selection for specializations? Elective
disciplines will be selected either in June or centrally in September
Okay, thanks
Write to the head of the OSUP in the bachelor's degree of the FCN T. A. Pak
I don't know if anyone is interested.\n \ Pkuliyev will hold another sem of protection of the sun, but he will certainly not notify anyone about this, and it was possible to find out about this only if you came to his defense today, which lasted from 5 o'clock to 10 o'clock in the evening. Which he also did not notify by mail. (Kst can not hold semes in the session, as well as on state holidays, happy Russia Day to everyone)\n\ppisma Kuliyev still stupidly ignores. Even a letter in which I asked to notify students about an additional seminar on group mail. \n\n To get an assessment for the work, you still need to come to the defense, where they ask questions from the category \what is the difference between task 1 and task 2\ in the work that was submitted a month ago but was not checked. \n\nFor those people who will not come to the defense, Kuliyev clearly hinted that the ratings will be lower.\n\n I wrote a letter to Shilov about all this this afternoon, while I'm waiting for an answer.
He said that even if he didn't come, he would put something on
But taking into account plagiarism and all such cases
He said that today
He said \well, there will be some assessments\. It is also not clear how he defines plagiarism in the works, most of which is code. I very much doubt that he uses special programs. And it is not methodologically correct to check plagiarism on a text that consists of when in <url>
He said that some do not even change the names of variables and the code is 1 in 1
Detection of anti-plagiarism by eye in unformatted code. Strongly
And the names of the variables are most often given
Well, do they also determine plagiarism on algos?
We discussed this with him you can listen to it in the audio recording
I'm sure not
In the programs that you need to write yourself-no
There are half of the creative tasks to change the previous code
Not in this now anyway the question is
About teachers, you should also write to S. M. Avdoshin And put the curator in a copy.
I put the teacher and lecturer in the copy. I won't forget next time
We are in the Yandex Contest, there is such an opportunity there
Earlier, when we were me.The contest was not used, it was checked according to the Stanford program. There, students wrote such a thing ))
But just plagiarism of two programs <100 lines can be seen by eye,
yes, but not 150 solutions
And should I forward the letter that I sent today to Valery Vladimirovich Sergey Mikhailovich tomorrow, or will Valery Vladimirovich send it anyway and I shouldn't create an extra chain of messages?
Another thing is this - I spoke with Mikhail Vasilyevich today about the exam on the 19th. He asked me to tell you that you need to prepare for the exam by lectures. It will be accepted in zoom, for 2 hours per group, from 10-00 to 20-00 without a break
So, 181-in 10, 182 - in 12, etc. You will also get a message about this from the School office
worth
the contests are all checked, I just didn't have time to upload everything to the table. And now, too, there is no, because today there is a deadline for WRC again
About protection:\ Yes, there was no notification about them by mail, only at the seminar\PC When the teacher accepted my reports, it was clear that he had not seen them before(although it was said that he allegedly watched everything and even checked for plagiarism). There are also no ratings promised before the protection\Pnakops before the session, obviously, there are also no
CSOs.
And what about the bonus one? The deadline is after the exam.
Then the result will not be able to be known before the exam.
Yes. I just want to double-check the yoga tests. There, the results were automatically issued, but we need to adjust something.
So the exam was previously scheduled for the 23rd, I looked at the schedule. Therefore, try to keep up to the 19th
And if we don't meet it, will it be HY?
can't you keep up with the bonuses? They are not mandatory
Yes, but if we don't have time before the 19th, then the bonus will not be counted?
isn't the exam 19?
It was originally assigned on the 23rd.
Then they moved it.
Well, this is Mikhail Vasilyevich.
ah, okay
As I want, so I turn.
I wouldn't be surprised if the exam is tomorrow)00))
And there is no information about the vending machines?
Mikhail Vasilyevich said at the first lecture:\n\Automatic weapons are only in the army, we do NOT have automatic weapons.
Well, just rumors from senior courses sound different
Mikhail Vasilyevich is one of the most striking examples of UB.
We are preparing for the exu.
And we'll see how it will be there.
and when he accepted my work, he pretended that he saw it, but apparently he put the grades on the go and at random
let's press the red button

I would also click on the evaluation formula))
+ + +
+
even at the lecture at 9 am, this is not Orthodox (especially in quarantine)
))
++++++++++
He didn't have to\pEto was a gesture of friendship for those who didn't cry, if anything
I don't know if anyone is interested.\n \ Pkuliyev will hold another sem of protection of the sun, but he will certainly not notify anyone about this, and it was possible to find out about this only if you came to his defense today, which lasted from 5 o'clock to 10 o'clock in the evening. Which he also did not notify by mail. (Kst can not hold semes in the session, as well as on state holidays, happy Russia Day to everyone)\n\ppisma Kuliyev still stupidly ignores. Even a letter in which I asked to notify students about an additional seminar on group mail. \n\n To get an assessment for the work, you still need to come to the defense, where they ask questions from the category \what is the difference between task 1 and task 2\ in the work that was submitted a month ago but was not checked. \n\nFor those people who will not come to the defense, Kuliyev clearly hinted that the ratings will be lower.\n\n I wrote a letter to Shilov about all this this afternoon, while I'm waiting for an answer.
He never held a conversation without going to the semes
The fact that you did not go to the semes is like not his problems, they were on schedule
You don't seem to understand what I'm talking about.
He spoke at the very beginning of the quarantine. We then asked him again that if we submit reports, then there is no need to come. He confirmed
I didn't attend all the classes, but in the beginning, at the first classes in our group, he didn't say such a thing
He tells each group his own thing
But it is better to do it according to all the laws.
Or specify everything in writing.
Well, yes, I agree here\pOn I did not allow you to skip seminars in writing centrally
Therefore, there is no evidence - alas.
But even if so, to do everything according to the laws\pTo in the rules for submitting a report and its protection, it says that we must register for the submission of reports after receiving a review. No one has received a review
But in general, not responding to communication channels for a long time is also illegal, as far as I know.
And there was a period of 2-3 days, just for a minute.
And this is already a written document.
Teachers are required to provide feedback.
Which, as it turns out, was not.
If he had fulfilled his obligations that he gave at the beginning of the module this would not have been required
Here we are specifically talking about feedback, as I understand it.
A rough example. Let's cut off someone's hand and then give them a prosthesis, I don't think that this will make us horrendous
And an example of what:
? I
do not agree, I initially knew about this scheme - I still made it to the last one and he made a day so that I could pass
If he had fulfilled his obligations that he gave at the beginning of the module this would not have been required
It has nothing to do with obligations
Kuliyev described the procedure for submitting works at the beginning of the module. And then he didn't follow them, which is why he had to add classes
You say, but you're stupid.\n\nThey say that in 2-3 days after sending the report, you should receive a review and a call for protection. \n\There were no calls. What should we do?
If he told you that you can not attend seminars, then this is not a dispute about anything and it can be ended
Go to a seminar and ask for mb?
If the teacher does not answer?
It's not about visiting at all but okay
And if there are no seminars?
Guys let's go to sleep
They were always before the test, I believe that you sent your homework earlier before the penalty
I have no Kuliyev at all, if th.
Ah, deep
And you're right, yes, I sent them before the fines.\n\nNo I'm not talking about myself.
As it turned out, we have a lot of suckers who send all the labs when the semes are over.
The accumulations must be clarified before exa-22.06.
In theory, you can send all these labs at least until the 19th.
Judging by the piece of paper that was sent to us.
Semy ended almost in May.
A lot of people were sent in early June.
And well, he seemed to say that you can send the type and not protect it, but he will look at any plagiarism there, and so on
What should they do?
OK, he said, what's next?
You sent it.
The answer is 0.
And I want to know what's wrong with my work.
Xs, I kind of thought of sending it when there were still sems and I could ask about it directly
And I can't, the teacher decided to be silent.
You-yes, some-no.
Gentlemen. This has already been said in the conversations of the 1st course. I think I'll duplicate it here.\n\n It is not necessary to write here at night, some may not have notifications turned off.\Also, this is basically a chat for emergency communication, so I will ask you to transfer the dialogue to another platform
...
Sweet dreams
Hello, and until what date can I fill out the questionnaire for the specialization of the 3rd course ?
Until the end of next week
If one of the specialties has a competitive selection and we chose it, when knocking out of the competition, is it possible to go to another specialty ? Is it possible to choose both specialties at once, setting a priority for each of them ?
it seems that there is a graph \priority 1\, but there is no \ priority 2\
If you couldn't pass for one specialization, the passage is automatically closed for another
If you do not pass the specialization, you will make a choice from the disciplines of your choice
And is there no way to still choose both specializations or somehow push back the deadlines of your choice and organize a competition in parallel ?
Then another question is whether it is possible to pass the selection, and then refuse to specialize?
Guys. Am I the only one who is not going to defend the works of Kulieva?
He will take work tomorrow at 17: 00
And he said this 23 hours before
And only orally
I'm not sure that I want to go to the specialization, I want to try to pass the selection, and then decide whether to go there or not, they said at the presentation that it was possible, but I decided to clarify
there is an item \priority 1\, but no \ priority 2\
Well, try it
I was going to apply for a specialty on the pros, but this is a competitive selection, I'm not sure that I can pass it, and there is no selection for another specialty, it turns out like in a casino, if you need to choose one specialty. The same moment may be for others, since one of the specialties is with a competition, then you need to place bets, or immediately choose the one where you can get without a competition.
you don't have to choose a specialty at all if you don't want to
Tormented by the same question
https://www.hse.ru/org/persons/47633808
Sergey Avdoshin, has
anyone already started being allowed into the exam conference?
It's still early, isn't it?
well it was indicated that the conference will start at 2
we will still need to show our passports
Damn, a passport, exactly
Thank you
)))
plus another workplace to show
🤔 \pArgument
Good afternoon, during the OS exam, for reasons beyond my control, the computer turned off, I rebooted, and the conference is no longer allowed, what should I do?
According to the rules of the event, this is like a no-show
Well, I don't know, our person flew out and they let him in. But there almost immediately
And I also had a reconnection due to the Internet. I noticed only at this moment already
Someone didn't read the rules, dy?
There is up to 5 minutes
Well, if they didn't let you in there for at least 5 minutes
Fill out the form. At what point did this happen?
I wrote to the lecturer, they let me in, half an hour before the end
That is, I was able to pass the work
Are student desktop records saved?
Yes
Everything is saved
Well, according to the regulations ... it is
planned,
When will there be information on the choice of courses/specializations? they
say, in the fall
and what courses can we take online?
it is not known yet. We are waiting for ourselves
Specializations too? The results of that questionnaire only in the fall?
this is a question for the training office of
Che, are they already planning distance learning?! Again?! disciplines
shared with campuses
Well, is it TO ADD or take the CURRENT ONES and transfer them to the remote at the same time?
For example, a minor is planned for the entire tower
They save on everything... This
is optimization
Distance learning is no longer optimization.
What else
Did you like distance learning?
Moreover, we are talking more about lectures on 4 campuses than about distance
How's that?
Well, it's not going to be full-time.
Well, for the tower itself, yes.
I only care about one thing - that all training should be full-time, and not remote.
Well, remote control is the worst thing that could happen to the Tower
Well, this is an individual idea for everyone
For me, yes.
But from my point of view so
Sorry, I pay money for training.\n\n If I was on a budget , I wouldn't care.
The worst thing that could happen is a tower that would not have passed the certification
But I was able to compare both types and realized how ineffective the remote control was.
That is why I am interested in the latest news, I do not fully understand what they want to do this time. I am afraid that I will start my 3rd course again on a remote course and I understand this news so that this is exactly what they want to do - to transfer part of the courses to a remote course by making a union.
I'm sure you're not paying
It doesn't matter.
Okay, my family pays.
But we all suffer.
what an interesting statement \if I were on a budget , it would be all the same\ \It's as if everyone who entered the budget does not care about the level of training?)
You see what it says there.
?
What guys are we moving into Synergy
I'm talking purely about myself.
Sorry for the receipt on the budget
By the way, the mainors on the diste are super cool
And let the saved money go to the stipukha
The money for stipukha has already all gone
Or do you, Ol, get high constantly getting into an altercation with me and turning words in your direction?
I would expect it to be lowered this year
Mm
Well the vast majority of subjects go very well remotely
Such a
uh-uh, this is not necessary!
You know who knows how.
Well, type yes
From the word completely
I personally suffered a lot from the remote control.
And it's probably not even the tower's fault.
The HSE was not ready for such a turn of events.
I'm joking, honestly!
Anton, will we change?)))
hse.ru/cpc
The tower just moved quite painlessly. You can't imagine how many problems there are in other universities!
Well, why, I have friends.
Do you know how mentally painful it is for 1 couple to go to 9 00, to the iad, for example
They also suffered a lot)
and for some reason, everyone has more work on the remote site
When the dystopara is generally not inferior in quality. You can even hear the seminarian better
Do you know how mentally painful it is to leave at 18-19 hours?
I was really excited to go to the 1st couple, seriously.
Speaking of which
We vote for the schedule!
I'm already filling out the questionnaire, just now.
Speaking of birds.
That's right\nparadox of some kind\Saw maybe I started learning 🤔
Instead of spending time on the subway and hiking around Pokra, students started doing things!
+
Again, who has how.
in my opinion, 95% have it like this
95% went dist?
for 95%, this point works
Aaa.
Well, here yes.
Strange in general.
Well, it takes me 80 minutes to get to the university in one direction
In a stuffy room
Me too, the current in the subway.
And it's still better for me than a remote) You
can discuss it for a long time, I want to understand the essence.
In general, initially there was a minor project for the entire tower. Even before the pandemic,
I.E. TO INTRODUCE SOMETHING NEW?
Add To?
For 4 campuses
A new minor or take the current one?
Then the tower learned to use remote control and decided to tie it up. For both of these projects, it is necessary that there are pairs in 4 campuses that take place at the same time regarding something
It will be a few minors only. And it seems that in only this year
Well this is all a project
Multiple CURRENT minors?
And they want it in dist?
So?
No
And how?
Well, that is, no one has stated this
In the project FULL-TIME?
They are preparing the schedule so that pairs for 4 cities become physically possible
But remotely or in person - is it not specified?
If you are talking about whether your minor will be in disant, then it does not really depend on this project
Well, 3 out of 4 lectures will be remote
Oh, I see, then I don't care.
The main thing is not to touch the main disciplines in the LANDING...
Thank you very much!
I would like it if the lectures were online, and the seminars were held in person on one day or in two days. To go to university less often)
Then the seminars will turn into an explanation of the lecture
Or repeat
Yes, there may be such a problem
Well, I can say for myself that it is very difficult to force myself to attend lectures at a distance .

And it would be cool if the lectures were held in person, but at the same time they were recorded for other campuses
And the type and it's good for us and them
But I'm just expressing my opinion sorry
Yes, we are all doing this here now
, well, it's debatable here, you can always view the video recordings of the online lecture and if something did not go to review, and slow down something,
too, purely as an opinion
This is bad, because then professors and teachers of campuses can be left without work I
will say that it is not so easy for an average student to force himself to go to full
-time, yes, but this generates competition
but no one prevents Moscow from watching the lecture from Nizhny Novgorod, if we do not have such a specialist, this also happens
In many regions, universities are a kind of cultural center, and if this turns into just a moderated viewing of the course of a metropolitan lecturer, then the university/institute itself will turn into something else
By the way about repetitions there is a sound idea
It is often possible to assimilate information faster than to present it
Looking at 1.5 x is the norm
As a result, people who are deeply versed in their field, but perhaps do not tell a very exciting story, will be more appreciated, but people who can give an incendiary lecture
And let's compare the resources for development in Moscow and in the regions \n)
I doubt that, for example, Sergey Mikhailovich's lectures are the best lectures on dm
It's just that they need to be mostly watched on 2x
+++
On full-time everyone is easier, more responsibility. I can't explain it, but I could ride the 1st pair by 9 am, but I couldn't turn on the zoom at 10:30.
🤔 🤔 🤔
It's just better not to watch them if you've never known DM yourself.
Okay, I will agree with Dima for the first
time by 9 am on the axis I went, but I couldn't get up at 9 and watch from the crib
And I will take the opportunity to disagree with Dima and agree with you
Thank you very much)
Well ok a couple of times I forgot about the lecture on algorithms
But get up at 8 50 and watch the axes in 10 minutes
It was beautiful
I have never looked at them...
except for the consa and then in the recording...
I just forgot about many lectures.
I visited them all in person, almost without missing them.
But I was almost never late for them
(as well as for seminars)
Dan, I've missed you!
I want to see you!
When will I see Neo again in real life?! I
always read the nickname as vtf dan
Giza
+++++++++++++++++
And what, is it not so?
On the contrary, I am
vft given to
KAM as))00)
VTF DAN.
I'm SORRY))) In
general, it also pisses me off when they confuse my nickname, I'm KnaNtro, and they often write Knatro(((
.
Dear students, please use other chat rooms for your chatter!
https://t.me/joinchat/ChAQxElbYe4tXAX8wHCLsw
A Computer Graphics engineer is required in the laboratory at the Samsung AI Center. From junior to middle. If you have UE4 experience, it's a big bonus. Write to ARZ if you are interested
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1No0Dp76wkaOce5DyIeyDdfe2iCr3G7wMA6VGbam0IZg/edit?usp=sharing
I ask you to discuss your impressions in the fludilka
link,
Good morning, dear students,\n \ nThe grades for the exams of the 3rd and 4th modules are displayed in the system, please, before 18.00 on Thursday (July 9), carefully check their availability and correctness in the electronic test in the LMS. If you find a discrepancy, immediately inform us by reply letter.\ Aprosba to the elders of the groups - please convey the information to the students of your groups through internal communication channels.
Good morning, the evaluation for algorithms and data structures is still not worth it.
+ , what is not worth it
+ +
+
Guys, we understood
+ that we understood
You can not write to all students, everything is clear, thank you! Let's check it out
The algorithms appeared (I don't know at what point)
The estimates for the algorithms were set yesterday, they should appear in the lms today
Grades for disciplines not from the general list/projects have already been put up for the test? This hole in the list of items scares me
I take it there won't be an answer? :(
Barchuk. I wrote to you in the mail about this. I'm very worried
Don't worry, I made a request based on your assessment from Margarita Andreevna
Thanks!
The evaluation sheet is received, the score is put down\nThe next day in the lms should be displayed
Thanks!
EXAMS are also at 6 and higher!
?
Does not change anything
I had all the exams for 6+
Ok.
What is the place in the rating?
if about this speech
About the limit-this is how many applications you have submitted
Have you served them before?
No
,
and when I came in, it was already 3/11
Then I made a mistake
so like ummmmm
But there should be as many applications as you like logically
Because it is strange to select people by speed - they can also be cast
And on 10/11, it lasted for 7 attempts until it became 11/11, so this is the number of lucky ones
And choto about exams is a strange thing
Enivey, a survey of nearby classmates showed that those who have uds for _examen_ could also apply
+
I was able to
This is what Dima mb invented
I have never regretted that I updated the page from 17: 55
))))
In the first year, the same problem is the same, they can't apply. We need to write to technical support. I don't know, the system doesn't skip, maybe it doesn't understand what course you are applying for
This is interesting)
Well, I will also write to support...
I will also write
There is time, don't worry, we will find out
Read the position.
The exam is sometimes referred to as a whole subject that is not a credit
For the tower = any object
An exam is an exam.
And discipline is discipline.
The application was repaired!
Did you write?
I wrote
Does anyone else have problems with applying for a WB? Or has everything been decided for everyone?
I see that the guys show the rating/number of applications. I have only so, is this the norm?
I have the same as Egor
+
Your application has been accepted, I see it in the system.
Dear students, did everyone manage to apply for the WB?
I initially got it like. Do you have any Buntings in the system?
And Deryabin. Also, it seems to have turned out, but to be sure
Then check Lyutikov, please
Oh, check out the flash mob\Psmirnov, too, if you can
I don't see the application
Can you also watch Belkin?
And Alexandrova then
Malashenko is also
applying
for the VBM www.hse.ru/expresspolls/poll/376578518.html
Then something broke again
Forgot to update
By what date will the commission make a decision?
It seems to me that you have not forgotten just...
Good evening, and where can I write an application for a group change?
Please write to me by email
Wait a minute.
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) has published a new rating of programming languages\n \ n
rating,
Those to whom the commission approved the transition to the budget, should they do something else? Or can you already be happy and spend the money prepared to pay for the semester?
A question to the training office. Congratulations!
Now a letter about tuition fees has fallen
Dear students, the letter is intended for information to commercial students. If you applied for the WB and the commission approved your candidacy, then we can only congratulate you! You do not need to pay for training. An order will be issued for the transfer to the budget, the contract/ds is terminated, this is all later. Everyone is on vacation anyway:)
Thank you!
I have already written a letter, but just in case, I will clarify here for everyone\What is required from those who study at the expense of the HSE?
Hello! Can you tell me when the schedule of couples will be known? I want to plan my return to Moscow
Who are you? And in what sense is"required"? Do you have a specialization for the 1st semester?
Ruz will be available (according to the latest data) after August 18.
I don't have anything, I'm just a student at the expense of the HSE. Roman Lipatov. For some reason, I received an email about the payment
Wrongly, don't worry
Good afternoon, I still haven't received any receipts.\n\n Should I wait for the receipt and, if so, when?\n\If not, then just pay through the website until the 25th?
Yes, you can pay via the website by the contract number
Good afternoon, is it possible to find out how classes will be organized for foreign students who will not be able to come because of closed borders ?
HSE for their own,
Also in this article it is written that for such foreigners there will be a distance according to a special iupu
Thank you))
And if a foreign student has been in the Russian Federation all this time?
Do you also need to be quarantined?
Well, of course not
Are you talking about dorms?
Yes
I made a decision,
Thanks!
Subscribe everyone to this channel. There are a lot of useful things there
And how and when will it be possible to issue an IUP for people from the risk group? What is needed for this?
Should we wait for a receipt or can we pay right now?\n\n I have an installment plan for 10 parts... I
received a letter with an additional agreement on establishing a discount, but I am in the lists about transferring to the budget. Should I just ignore the email?
yes
This applies to students from the Russian Federation, no?
You can ask a more specific question. There are many aspects there
https://vk.com/hsedormitories
I advise all students living in dormitories to subscribe
And like those who did not cross the border
The question is still relevant.
To the training office
What should I do with the signed addendum? Scan it?
Oksana Vladimirovna, what will be the policy in relation to elective courses this year? \nThe number of places will be limited and the record will be on the speed or will there be places with a margin for each course?
It's time to make a newsletter f. a. q 🙂
And when will the contracts be terminated with those who switch to WB?
It seems that you misunderstood me, I am on a budget and I do not have an iupa\nThe HSE website says that we are going to study offline, but you can stay on training online for people from the risk group if there is an appropriate certificate. I'm asking about this
What will happen to those who should be transferred to the budget? I won't be expelled for non-payment? I'm already afraid of something
https://www.hse.ru/our/news/389014582.html
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xI7C5TI1XIYP3lqkKCtEx6sHMdUw7g-Ilc2tmdnBYG8/edit
I transferred from group 185 to group 184. In 185, the headman is no longer there, as a result. Should I fill it out or should the newly elected headman fill it out?
When will the elections be held?
I can kick them off their feet and we will arrange the elections now.
I think they'll manage without you. You just need to inform someone from the group personally
And I think they should be kicked)
Already passed
Great!
The table should reflect the most up-to-date information
I am the new headman, hello
No footwork, please
Mhe...
I need to specify my data, right?\Or do you need to somehow officially approach the training office and only after that fill out the sign?
Oh, by the way, has the information been updated in the RUZ?
Lisa, fill in your details, then please
Well
Dear students ,The selection of NIS and Elective Courses will be held centrally in the first week of September in the LMS system. There is a schedule for 2-4 courses in the Republic of Uzbekistan, but technical work continues to be carried out, so not everyone can see it periodically.
And the first week of September is from 1?
Or the first full one?
Oksana Vladimirovna, what will be the policy in relation to elective courses and NIS this year? \nThe number of places will be limited and the record will be on the speed or will there be places with a margin for each course?
Most likely, again, while the schedule is in progress
Guys, thanks for the question. I am aware of the well-established approach of "who is the first, who is the slipper", I really hope that it will be possible to revise this process this year in favor of at least the rating of students, and not the speed of their response. This issue is being discussed
There is a technique that was at least previously used at FENG, where the number of places for elective courses is not limited. This way, all students can study what they want to study. I understand that this is difficult to implement, but maybe there are thoughts in this direction
What are your constructive suggestions? You can collect it and send it to me by mail, for example, we will discuss it with Valery Vladimirovich.
I will try to compose and send it by the evening
Very reasonable. Students who were forced to enter the discipline have many problems when studying it. \nNo!\Here there are also two situations for teachers.\n1) the teacher calculates his strength and his time, he himself limits the possible number of students. This is usually on popular courses, for which there are many people who want to\n2) the teacher can remain without a load if his discipline is not chosen. My opinion is that it's not terrible, but everyone treats it differently.
https://t.me/joinchat/ChAQxElbYe4tXAX8wHCLsw
Please tell me where and how can I get a MIR card for a scholarship if I was transferred to a budget?
https://www.hse.ru/org/hse/aup/ubu/scholarships/cards
Thanks!
details,
So far, there was no additional mailing list, only if you look at the site
Good night, is there no schedule yet?
Studying from September 5, it's cool, of course, but too implausible :)
Can I send my MIR card to the accounting department for a scholarship?
There was information on the HSE website that students with antibodies to coronavirus are not required to wear a mask. Will you need to submit a certificate with the analysis result somewhere? Or is it enough just to show the brave guards every morning?
Good afternoon, there was information in the group of the Higher School of Economics that all classes attended by more than 50 students will be online, but the audience is booked in the schedule for a number of lectures. How will the lectures ultimately take place?
Dear students, we will choose NISa and electives this year by filling out Google forms in which you will prioritize (1-2) seminars and elective disciplines. Not in the LMS! You asked us to change the approach to the choice, we are trying to put it into practice. Start-tomorrow 🤞  🏻 As soon as everything is ready , we will make a mailing list to group emails here.
What is the principle of ranking students?
And if you choose a department, then you will need to choose something else in the second priority?\n\pI is the department considered the first choice in priority? Both in the NIS and in the subjects of choice.
Will be)
Rating for the year
Specialization?
Good evening, what about the schedule?
What about him?) Adapts to orders again
The table is still missing.
We do not have seminars in ruza on DB and testing
We have seminars only on economics.
And study from September 5.
Yes
Just in case, I will repeat the question, because there my minor is marked as offline in the table 🌚
Gentlemen. If you have offline couples that should be online, most likely the schedule is still being edited. I suggest you wait for a message from the UO that the schedule has been prepared
I'm also wondering how everything works with specializations?
Who chose the specialization (there were elections), he notes in the Google form\pC of the specialization of the joint venture a priori there is a NIS joint venture
Thanks!
Who chose the specialization (there were elections), he notes in the Google form\pC of the specialization of the joint venture a priori there is a NIS joint venture
Do you already have a Google form?
The date/time of sending the Google form, if it is in a valid interval, can not affect the priority of the student in the choice, do I understand correctly?
Correctly.
The question is relevant.
I think that when it is ready we will receive a message in the important and a letter to the mail
Thanks.
There are just so many questions about filling out the form that it seems that it has already been sent, and I missed everything :)
And what should those who missed the exam for a good reason do? I have transferred the defense of the course paper with the approval of the scientific director, it turns out that I did not fail anything, but I will still be lower in the rating just like that. Why is it that every time the rating affects something, it is taken into account before retakes?
+
There will still be NIS only from the second module. The retakes will then be over. Can't you count the seats then?
Like nisa from the first module
+
Not like, but exactly. NISa 3 modules last from 1 to 3.
Funny. Then I don't know what to do
May there not be another disbandment that you are starting(
So still, what should those who have a transfer for a good reason do? We will remain in a losing position, without doing anything wrong at the same time? After
all, for a good reason, you had more time to develop, and therefore more chances for an excellent rating \ pNechestnenko comes out
And what I missed, because, for example, I was in the hospital, is not taken into account at all?
Come on, maybe the development of geo-applications is a good course, do not worry
How to eat, and count?
According to the mainors, you were generally in the rating with the design, but no one was burning
Skip online protection-it's interesting
I believe that people who have been sweating all year and did not finish the course in the summer have the right to an advantage. Dada, I'm a bastard
It's just that you don't seem to understand why good reasons are called good reasons
You don't just don't want to pass, you can't pass for reasons beyond your control
And I also want to study what is interesting to me. Inconsistency
I really hope that this is exactly what happened with you
And to be honest, it's embarrassing for me to explain this to a twenty-year-old person, because even children understand this
It seems that the management asked you not to flood in this chat
And I'm smart. Please explain why someone with a good reason (let's say that the real one) it turns out that it becomes more important than those who passed everything at once? Well, no luck, what can I do now?
Mr. Ivy is right, you'd better go to the BOS, Lula will fly from Shan or ARZ and you will know.
And it would be awkward for me. I know what good reasons are. You won't wish it on the enemy. But the fact that this may not be taken into account is yes, there is nothing else to come up with.
I will try to do a survey soon, it will be possible to take courses of the shad. We'll have to choose by Thursday.
choose the SHAD courses for the fall semester
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScSXWx0_1dIGmPsVlje3w_SjYwI5TbhZZaXPI0cbfnuKWWfaQ/viewform
Tell me, are these courses taken additionally or instead of nisa / elective courses?
Additionally, for those who wish
Excuse me, another question, but are these courses going as an elective? That is, you will need to write an exam on them, or are these purely for self-development?
Are there any requirements for a motivation letter other than the last name? Or is it a free essay on the topic \Why am I worthy to be taken\?
for self-development.
It is necessary to write convincingly why you choose the course. The text is studied, and it also affects the selection
Good evening, are MCS a priori online?
MCD? Yes
Good afternoon, are there at least approximate deadlines for the protection of term papers for those who have arrears on them?
I think they are not completely sick, now they need an updated ticket. I don't remember that they looked at someone at the beginning of the year in the second year. I think they will start after 10 somewhere
During the retake period, we are focusing on the end of September
I will make a mailing list, we will collect it through the elders
I will call tomorrow and clarify this issue
Through a file, but it's still not there
Tell me what to do with it
And is it relevant, because there was no mailing list
MCD is a mandatory discipline
They asked me to look at the sign. Ruz broke down
In the plate at Shilov online, at Liftsitsa offline
Also, students of the JV specialization report on the overlap of economics and their introductory lecture
There will be a link in the zoom, it will appear in the layout of the schedule and Daria Anatolyevna will make a newsletter to the mail
Thanks!
Solved
And what about our lectures on Monday? According to the number of students, they seem to be online, but according to the schedule they are offline, how will they pass?
I don't see any offline lectures on Monday
I have both testing and databases offline in the R503 and R405 classrooms
If you look at the ruz, then stop, it's bad for him
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aSgVCtYh0C4npxsQJuAVXurmqaaXoTjr/edit#gid=900288907
Blue ones too
Uh-huh, but there mcd\PK When will it be known what it is and what they eat with?
Krasava ivy!
Mcd offline
I was told today that the MCD is offline.
That the MCD will be offline with the broadcast.
You really like hitting on people, don't you?
Okay, whatever you say
And where does the information come from, by the way? Initially, it was written in the HSE group that the MCD is strictly online
I went to the university today, and someone from the UO told me that the MCD is offline with a broadcast.
Got it, Mercy
I have from the director of the Perm campus
Cool, what can I say here
Ahaha. \n\pU you online, we have a broadcast)
By the way, the Perm teachers lead the
Mcd at the economist
)
Thank you that I am not an economist.
It's a shame for them, probably
Gentlemen, ladies and non-ordinary persons . This is flood. I strongly recommend that you go to another conversation for this
Good afternoon, when can I expect a link to the classes of the Lifschitsa group on economics?
The table has
is there any description of the course?
Look at last year, there seemed to be an IoT
Good afternoon! Now in ruza there are tomorrow's lectures offline, and in the table with the schedule online, which one to focus on?
And also in what form are the seminars tomorrow?
Do not believe Ruz yet. RUZ is cheating temporarily.
Well, tell me then
How will it be
And we have offline + online in the table))) I
think it's just worth waiting for the schedule by mail, as we were promised to do at first.
As they sent it to the SAT, I think they will send it to MON.
And how to collect student's money, if everything is online\n Maybe you don't need everything online, please
We need everything offline, there are opportunities.
If we start from what the PI economics seminarian told us (that on days when there is at least one online, it is impossible to put offline), then we will not have a single offline day
I hope I'm wrong
It doesn't seem to work like this anymore
You can't mix online and offline!
The order is as follows.
Now we have 2 online lectures, a window, an offline seminar
And I hope
And when will they send the schedule for tomorrow? My parents ' schedule depends on it
So this is also online, because there really is an order))))\pVse och difficult, I would not like to make a schedule now
The order came right under September 1))
About offline and online)))\n\n Beautiful, right? And they could all be full-time... the
rector's office used to be
A little bit )

Obviously, let them know when they can be delivered and at what time
I hope there will be less offline
That's exactly why I won't achieve anything... it
's unlikely that anyone will want to come just to pass a student
Let's go to the flood, otherwise no one will answer me
Hello, dear students!Please be patient, the schedule will be sent to you within half an hour at most to group emails.\nThe next day you have scheduled full-time classes, in the future the issue with Monday will be resolved separately (will it be online or offline).
I.e. will the lectures be full-time tomorrow?
Yes, the installation lectures will be held in person
Eh... We can only hope that the lectures will continue to be full-time...\n\npust my prayers will work...
Only the installation lectures have permission to go offline, so no
Are installation lectures the first lectures?
Yes
In general, now everything can be done offline.
Here the question is purely intra-university.\n\nThe first course is all offline, so you know.
The rector allowed the first course separately, as I remember
What is the difference between installation lectures and regular ones ?
They are young, they have good health
The fact that they are the first
Naturally, this is intra-university, but it is doubtful that all restrictions will be abruptly lifted now
Your opinion is not the opinion of all students
And I also strongly ask you to go to the fludilka
I'm not there)))
because the teacher and students have the opportunity to meet in person and discuss further interaction, I think)
And the broadcast will not be conducted from it? I planned my time based on an online lecture, and I'm afraid I won't have time to change my plans taking into account the time needed to get to the building
I may be a bore, but somehow I don't really find out 10 hours before the class that classes that are marked as \ online\ (blue) will be full-time
And what is the difference between the installation lectures from the usual ones, if the number of students at them is the same? At the university level, there is a ban on classes with more than 50 students, no?
For 2-4 courses*
Allowed by the rector installation offline
But this conflicts with the rule about 50, doesn't it?
Both rules are established by the order of the rector)))))
So formally there is no conflict\n \ n in the flood, it seems that I described the same scheme
There is such a scheme-the first lectures, the beginning of the training of first-timers and classes for <50 people, if these are not minors, you can go offline
The rest is required online
https://t.me/joinchat/ChAQxElbYe4tXAX8wHCLsw
Comrades, who will come offline tomorrow, please record the lectures
Or make a broadcast, which will be even better
So for foreigners abroad, they should all be broadcast and you can connect there
Or am I wrong?
In theory...) It
is not very convenient to find out in 10 hours (and for those who have not read the tg channel even less) before the couple that it is online
Breiman's lecture will definitely be full-time, we are now solving the issue with the first pair.\pSo of the 2nd pair, we will try to set up the broadcast
And it is possible to leave lectures offline, as it was in ruza?
+
Hypothetically, what should students do who expected that couples would be online and stayed in dachas because of this?
Daria Anatolyevna,\When can I expect information about tomorrow?
Tomorrow is an online lecture on Unreal Engine 4...
Let's sum it all up\n1) When is the information about what will happen tomorrow?\n2) Is there a planned response from the SHADA to those who wanted to go there?\n3) Why can't we make Monday and Tuesday completely online days, and Friday and Saturday-offline?
The lecture was made online just now
Edited
Question No. 1 is removed
And what if you are not in Russia now, and nothing is known about the broadcast ?
Will the lecture be broadcast ?
Oh, online and offline are mixed up. Excellent.
The issue with the broadcast is still relevant
Good morning, has it become known what happened to the broadcast?
The broadcast has started, but where can I get the link?
Good afternoon. Is there any information about tomorrow
Links to broadcasts have been added to the schedule layout, we are solving the issue with Breiman - most likely, he will go online (or another day), I will write about him separately
Will there be a message to group emails?
required. Tomorrow you have a completely online day, links to conferences are added to the layout
Thanks a lot
What's with the schedule for tomorrow? As in the table? In a different way? What time should I set the alarm clock?
As in the table, online day, links in the table
#General
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3a9c32000ef9db4228a1186a27fae8e9fb%40thread.tacv2/1599217361415?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2221f26c24-0793-4b07-a73d-563cd2ec235f%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22b652e608-30f6-4709-8d7d-55b0a6b43034%22%7d
What course is this?
This is an elective course on fp, if I'm not mistaken
Oh, yeah, you're right
Where can I find a link to the lecture that is in 5 minutes?? Quality
assurance and testing on the
right in the table
https://zoom.us/j/94497345253
thanks
The same
It continues
Come in) they don
't let you in(
Another question)
OK, thank you)
Please explain how the schedule works? I'm from the 181 group, I'm going to go to the\Ecosystem of the Internet of Things\. It turns out that I will have two different pairs at one time. Is the time flywheel included in the kit? Or do I need to buy more separately?
Together with the mask in the UO, get
Good afternoon!\Good, thank you 👍
Will there be elective courses this Friday?
Again, I will ask a lot of questions, because I did not see the answer\n1) What to do if the pairs overlap one another?\n2) What should I do if the online pair is immediately after the offline pair? The library is limited, coworking spaces could not cope with the load even before the coronavirus, and the Internet in the building is even more so. In addition, the number of outlets in the building leaves much to be desired\n3) When will the final schedule be?\ n4) Is the idea of making part of the days completely online and part completely offline still denied?
1) This is a violation, write to the UO.\n2) This is a violation, write to the UO.\n4) This has already been done, there is such an order.
In the case of 1) and 2), this should be eliminated BEFORE the pairs themselves. Therefore, we must immediately write to the UO to fix it...
Speaking of overlays, I had an overlap of pairs with the development of games on Unreal and with Databases, on Monday.
Dear students, the choice of elective courses ends only today, tomorrow we will upload the answers from Google forms.The election deadline was indicated earlier. In this regard, everything is stable.The instruction regarding NIS, elective disciplines will still change based on the "overlays"," dilutions " of classes.
Dear students, who asked about the electives of the FCN. Registration for them will be open from September 19 in the LMS. There will be an additional newsletter, please follow the information.
And yet, the table shows that the course on the Internet of Things begins tomorrow. Is that correct? Who should go there if the results of the choice of courses will be only tomorrow? If so, what should I do if there is an online seminar right after the offline one?
We remind you that the course selection campaign is coming to an end. Please complete the selection today
The list of students who chose the Internet of Things ecosystems: tomorrow you have a lecture at 11.10 and then a practical lesson in R614
Will there be an online broadcast ?
Or a record
Will there be a lecture on applied methods of linear algebra? My group (181) has an online seminar and then an offline lecture(so it turns out). Is that the plan?
The same problem is only 185
the list of students for a lecture on PMLA, D202, full-time lecture, most likely the group \will grow up\, these are still preliminary results
Yes, there will be a lecture. We will book classrooms for online seminars (they will be added to the layout).
thank you! 🙏
Is the lecture full-time or remote? (Linear Algebra)
full-time, D202
Thanks!
Is the ban on online and offline classes on the same day not valid temporarily or now on a permanent basis?
If the educational institution has the opportunity to provide students with an audience where they can listen to an online lesson, or organize a window for moving from home to university and vice versa between classes of different formats, then it is allowed to combine them in one day
Good night, when will the schedule be? The
schedule is in the layout and in the RUZ
Can I trust Ruz now?
It's definitely possible for tomorrow. You can check the layout. If you have any questions, write to your personal chat. Check yourself in the lists for tomorrow's elective disciplines.
Well, thank you.
Vitaly, this course is only possible in full-time. If you can't come yet, we recommend choosing a different course. Or we will assign the second priority
Can I tell you the answer by the end of the day ?
Yes, of course. Today we are forming lists. Should I remove you from ecosystems?
Hello. Tomorrow, the intersection of pairs at the specialization of the joint venture. At the same time, some couples are online, and others are in person. Please, save me.
No, you don't need to!\ pStarosta talked to the teacher, and he said that there are no problems with closing the practice during the time that I will have, for example, in the second module(especially since I plan to arrive earlier than this time)Therefore, if possible, I would like to stay on the Internet of Things.
That's how the schedule is loaded in Google drive
Now even Google drive writes that there is no Internet connection
And there is also a Zoom update that requires
As far as we know, this is how it was with matstat, they will just send the material and ... that's it.
This lecture was postponed from Monday, it will not be today, because you already had a lecture on the database this week. Starting next week, this lecture will be held in an asynchronous format - the teacher will record the lecture for you in advance, send it to you at the appointed time, and you will be able to listen to it at a convenient time for you (before the start of practical classes).
Those who should go to the Spanish Academy of Sciences will go to the Spanish Academy of Sciences. These students will be reallocated to one group, and the Economics seminar for this group will be moved to another day.
https://t.me/joinchat/AAAAAEtjLYwSaOmWgD5MtA
Good evening.\ nThe next day, the group on the specialization of the ISP RAS goes to classes at the ISP RAS.For everyone else, seminars on the Economics of Software Engineering will be held online according to the following schedule:\ n181 and 182 group are engaged together on 2 pairs with Shatilov;\n183 group - 2 pairs (Lifshits);\n184 group - 3 pairs (Lifshits);\n185 group - 4 pairs (Lifshits).\n\Lectures on PI Economics will be held on Mondays for 1 pair online, for the ISP RAS group, the seminar will be held on Mondays for 2 pairs online.
links from past classes are relevant, I will add them to the layout
Thanks a lot
https://zoom.us/j/2918201341
And do you know what will happen to classes on Monday? At the moment, I have superimposed pairs for the course of choice and NIS
Do you know what courses you have?
Not yet, but if there are first priorities, which I hope there will be an overlap
Well, the classes will be divorced
And when will it be known which courses and research institutes you will need to go to? And if they don't have time to start classes by then, what should I do?
According to the situation, Timofey
Well, thank you, I hope the question will disappear on Monday
Where can I view the recording of today's workshop on quality assurance and testing?
Today it turned out that the Vyshkin Internet does not pull online seminars, will they do something about it?
Are the NIS starting tomorrow or not yet?
And to believe or not to believe the schedule in the table at least?
And what if you don't remember which NIS you chose?
Or if the nis is superimposed on the course of choice? I
am looking for a teacher of the Romanian language who is ready to work in an unstable schedule (an agreement on classes after 21:00, classes may be canceled). If it's you or your friend, write to the BOS
Yes. Audiences for couples with Breiman will be added today, according to the courses of choice, we are waiting for a newsletter from Oksana Vladimirovna
Thanks for the answer
https://playrix.zoom.us/j/99254293311?pwd=djZRREVJa1hmRVcvYUZaMVM4djR3Zz09
https://playrix.zoom.us/j/97738405260?pwd=TkhMeE9oaDlSdzI4dmZJQXQxQzJadz09
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3afa0dc6a0d90b4bf2bd5ac5d92ac3bdc3%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=8d31401c-6ef1-424c-8c9a-742da93e5c1b&tenantId=21f26c24-0793-4b07-a73d-563cd2ec235f
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3afa0dc6a0d90b4bf2bd5ac5d92ac3bdc3%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=8d31401c-6ef1-424c-8c9a-742da93e5c1b&tenantId=21f26c24-0793-4b07-a73d-563cd2ec235f
Dear students, we are trying very hard to provide lists while there are snags. Please don't be too strict! Занятия Classes will take place!
Oksana Vladimirovna, And in theory, it is possible to change places?
Will Saleh's nis take place? There are 4 people in total...
Good night, my NIS intersects with the MCD.
MCD-Game development. \ PNIs-Data analysis.
What should I do in this situation?
Of course!
We have classes tomorrow... we'll
ask Shilov
I just found a discrepancy, judging by the rating tab
Oh, I also found a discrepancy
Wait, did you sign up for a discipline from another campus?
Is this not our discipline?
Methods of data analysis in PI - not ours?
Our
I was not enrolled in cloud technologies, although I am higher than half of its participants in the rating. Can you watch it?
Excuse me, but why is a cumulative rating used for the distribution, which takes into account additional electives (for example, English)? Thus, if I gave up English in the second year, I will be lower in the ranking than someone who has the same number of credits in other subjects as me, but did not give up English
Offtop, but important. Breiman's seminars on Tuesday are definitely online or is it a joint of the table?
online
Thanks
English has 0 credits like
In the cumulative no it seems
And because of the electives, I was higher in the kum in the 1st year than in the usual one
Who didn't have that they are significantly lower in the rating table from Google tables?
Are you talking about the fact that judging by the rating, you should have got to another nis?
I have a minimum score of "4" there, although I did not get below "5" for the entire second year...
This is for all the time
Rating for all the time of training
Cumulative rating
Well yes. I ended up not getting anywhere at all
🙈
The same thing
Well, I'm talking about NIS
There are still shoals with a rating, everything will be redone
Relax
And a person can switch from one nisa to another if he got where he was registered, but changed his mind?
A. I found a guy who has a rating 30 points lower than mine and they took him
That's what I was talking about
This is the norm
Did you put it on the first priority?
Guys. Let's wait for tomorrow. In the meantime, let's go to bed. All the same, the one who did it is probably asleep
Hello, I didn't find myself in the lists of courses for the first semester, what to do?
Yes, we don't even really know the schedule for tomorrow.
You definitely have the first pair, OK?
Just believe the table?\ pTam after the lecture ONLINE, a full-time couple immediately goes.
You left me alone, okay?
https://playrix.zoom.us/j/99254293311?pwd=djZRREVJa1hmRVcvYUZaMVM4djR3Zz09
https://playrix.zoom.us/j/97738405260?pwd=TkhMeE9oaDlSdzI4dmZJQXQxQzJadz09
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3afa0dc6a0d90b4bf2bd5ac5d92ac3bdc3%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=8d31401c-6ef1-424c-8c9a-742da93e5c1b&tenantId=21f26c24-0793-4b07-a73d-563cd2ec235f
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3afa0dc6a0d90b4bf2bd5ac5d92ac3bdc3%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=8d31401c-6ef1-424c-8c9a-742da93e5c1b&tenantId=21f26c24-0793-4b07-a73d-563cd2ec235f
Charming.
Everything is on top of each other.
I have Unreal Engine and Data Analysis Methods at the same time.
And which pair should I go to, excuse me?
You do realize that a couple more such calls, and the chat will turn into email only?
You do realize that you're sending me to Holivar right now, don't you?\pTy do you realize that a nightmare is happening now?You do realize that you're just pissing me off, don't you?\pTy do you realize that I have a question of increased urgency right now?
Not relevant for all groups
I tried and rewrote it from the table, while playing campucter at the same time. Has something changed there?
You forgot group 183.
With their database.
Write it in with a pencil
And how can we go today to simultaneously develop a game on UE4 and on NIS Methods of data analysis?
I'm not alone!!!
+ , computer vision
(there are 6 people who are not in the rating at all)
These are Permians
They don't have that they are from another campus
A similar question with \ Resource-efficient combined algorithms\ and a seminar on PMLA on the third pair
They transferred to us this year
In any case, there is one person who is at the very bottom of the rating
And somehow it's a shame that it seems to be rated, but nothing seems to be clear
We are waiting for the rework of the lists
And what to do today?
I have already informed UO about the intersection of pairs, we are waiting for an answer.
And a schedule without intersections
Not all emails have been read yet\Changes will be made as incoming requests are processed
Oksana Vladimirovna, this morning I wrote you a letter and a message in the telegram.\pOtvet never received.\n Nothing has changed in the table.
I will answer
Good afternoon!\n\n The table contains new distributions by groups for NIS and elective courses.\n\n For questions, please contact me.\n \ pS sincerely, \ Pchuikin Nikolay
🥺 ❤️
Thank you for being there!!!!
+
I received an email that I was not assigned to the courses of choice for the spring semester, although I am in the table. What to believe? Or did I not understand something?
+
+
+
Sorry, this is a bug. I think I made a mistake with the unallocated list. Everything will be alright.
https://legalacts.ru/doc/mr-31210205-20-31-profilakti
If you have any questions about the schedule, it is better to contact Daria Anatolyevna
We have already decided that there were other people in the audience we booked, the computer classes are now all closed, they say that they are being robbed a little :(
By the way, did you send a contract to those who switched to the budget?
I still haven't received any email
I am too, but in the lms I have an extract about grades generated already with information that I am studying locally with state funding
It will be inconvenient to prolong the budget if the letter gets into spam 😅  😅  😅
I only remember such a letter
My LMS also says at the expense of the state
That is, at the expense of taxes))))
Today, BPI183 has a seminar with 2 pairs in R611, there is a strange couple there, there is no teacher
In R615
Now there will be no term papers. Instead of them-course projects. Only the method of applying for projects and the choice of projects by students changes. This is not provided for in the LMS, which is very inconvenient for everyone. But now the name corresponds to what the students are doing - not a job, but a project.
do you still need to write documentation?
It just distinguishes the project from the work ))\ pda, you will need to write documentation
That is, this year there will be no topics from managers? And if there are, where can I see the list?
So this means that it's time to come up with a topic and negotiate with the manager?
Topics from managers will be in the Google table. It will be available to students around the beginning of October
Thanks!
Yes, it's about time. And you will need to fill out a description of the project - this is a slightly more detailed description than was in the LMS when choosing a topic.
OK, thank you very much!
Good afternoon, is there still an opportunity to transfer from one nisa to another, if there are places on the nisa where I want to transfer and the teacher is ready to accept me?
Write me an email, please, thank you!
It will be \ n within 5 minutes should start
Has it started? Yes

Something is happiness today, if the class has started 🤯
https://t.me/joinchat/ChAQxBh_PRNdy1rTUlQkZA
And now you can't get into the computer classroom with a student pass at all? :( If you need a computer, for example. Or the socket...
everything is closed
And what should I do now if I need to go to a computer audience? No options at all? :(
The schedule is r205
I'm sitting here alone
By the way, two people are sitting on the link from the schedule, there is no teacher
This is a different group
But this will also do
Oh, very much
R305 booking
The teacher came
The couple has started
For 185 gr
And when will the dates of the course work retakes be known?
In the near future, the commissions are going to
Please tell me who to contact for assistance and submission of data for registration?
They should write to you. The Department of support of the activities of the scientific and teaching staff of the FKN is engaged in the execution of contracts
, they really wrote to me, but in that letter they asked me to hand over my passport data by Monday, and I will receive a new passport only on Tuesday. therefore, I would like to get some kind of contact and ask if it will be possible to pass everything to them later
The issue is resolved
What was the answer?
so far, nothing\nno Masha said, you can just write them a reply letter, they will answer
I have a similar situation, only with the WORLD map. I have applied for its release in accounting, and it will be ready only within a couple of weeks, probably
Ok
You can do it in another bank, they will do it in a day
Not on the weekend, really
Can I get a PO for social work?
You need to go to VTB and activate it, and so, in theory, yes
Yes, there is even such a use offered on the site
And what if I can log in to the LMS thanks to resetting passwords, but I can't log in to the mail? Is this normal? I have a lot of resources tied to my training email, there are problems
I really really need to go to slak, and he sends me a code to the mail T-T
Yes, it's fine. Rather, it is not normal, but this is a problem of technical support, which promises to solve it before Mon
and I will break something if I click on the \ Forgot password \ button? I won't live to see Monday at this rate
, only the textbook can reset the password
...and what should I do now? t-t
Wait and hope, it's better not to do anything, it may even die
And now
All
Trumpet to the campaign
I was thrown out of the mail
Yes
And what to do
Suffer\Wait for the password to arrive in the SMS
I will remind you that the same people had a server burned down almost a year ago without a backup
Not at these
Burned down at Deet's
And now we have a separate department for digital transformation
And what is the difference?
And this is a good question
But it is separate
And is it possible to change the password to a sane one through something now?
I think they will allow it in a couple of days
I received a message on my phone
And everything seems to work
And oh
Change your password
Well, this is with a new password, a terrible one from random
They store passwords in text
And you can now change your password in the YELK
And what is the problem with saving Google in akka?
Only I didn't understand how you can change it for an outlet
Well cybersecurity is everything
Two-factor authentication on Google? And the same random password?
I don't quite understand what you're talking about, but storing a password in plain text is not ok at all
Not all devices have Google acc 👀
A lot of times it came to the mail that if it doesn't come by Monday, you need to contact the manager of your training office
Most of the passwords came today
There it was meant to store passwords in Google's akka.
Then apple id)
And not all devices have an apple id 👀
Well, on any modern device, you can install a browser with an acc attached, or if there are applications for storing passwords
The work on the reorganization of the account storage structure has been completed. Students can use all HSE IT systems again\n\n
If you specified the phone number in advance in the ELK\n\n
https://lk.hse.ru/,
edu.hse.ru
If you have not previously specified a phone number in the ELK\n\n
https://lk.hse.ru/,
edu.hse.ru
Good day to all! When will it become clear whether I was enrolled in the elective through a paper application or not?
Write to Krylova Maria Andreevna
The benchmark is next week, the commissions will begin.
Hello. In the list for retaking the CD, I have 0, although I was told that I had a no-show for a valid reason. Is this a mistake or should I accept it because it's too late?
And can this be due to the lack of a project in my LMS for uploading course materials?
Leonid, remind me about this on Friday. Now write a letter to Pak Tatiana and Oris Yulia (training office)
Which of the above is about?
About non-appearance for a valid reason. This was handled by the training office.\nconnect to the project in the LMS - this is me
Hello! Please tell me, we were sent a letter about the dates of uploading the course work to the LMS. Does this mean loading the PZ into the antiplagiat, into the CD/WRC module?\nProsto, in the LMS project itself, it is written about the day before the defense, if we are talking about all the materials.
In the Rules of PI it is written-three days before the defense. I wrote about the day before the defense, because there is already very little time left. Try to download everything on time. The letter specifies the dates of the Training Office, send questions to Pak Tatiana and Oris Yulia
https://sap-se.zoom.com/j/93969578084?pwd=cTJpeGpSNnhnN01JenViS1pkM0lEQT09,
We invite you on October 2 at 14.30 to the lecture "SAP S/4HANA Academy with the company "RAMAX"!You will learn firsthand what an ERP system is and how the SAP consultant's profession is connected with it, what typical, original and curious tasks an SAP consultant faces in his daily work. You will understand what is behind the popular phrase "digital transformation" , and learn how to get into the SAP S/4HANA Academy educational program, which can become your passport to the world of a promising career in the global SAP ecosystem, numbering more than 1 million people in Russia and the CIS countries.\ Representatives Ekaterina Volkova, Head of the Analytical Solutions and Reporting Department \ Vitaly Pantoshkin, architect of the Analytical Solutions and Reporting Department from RAMAX, \ one of SAP's key partners in the CIS region, he has more than 8 years of automation of enterprises ' activities and will share his personal experience in project activities.
Connect to SAP! Together with IT partners, they are invited to training and pumping
And now what should I do with booking audiences? Who should I contact?
Maybe we should go to the Park for now?
And you can get a certificate for the military enlistment office only in person now?
They said that you can leave a statement somewhere, and then come to pick up a ready-made one
But I did not understand where this application can be left
:/
They issue a certificate for the military enlistment office right away, you come and get it, don't you?
Yes, it is inconvenient to get there)
MCD from Kursky?)))
Go by train, to the red Baltic, the station is right behind the military
Wow, that's right, there are diameters now
Good afternoon, can you tell us if we have any form of support for student projects, and if there is one, then who should I contact?
What student projects are we talking about?
Can I ask in private messages, so as not to clog up the conversation?
yes
Please help me, I don't understand anything. What kind of discipline was assigned to me in the LMS, which I can't find in the list of my courses, and why does no one from the people around me have such a letter
I got the same message
Ira, who are you asking to help? Write a letter to Pak. Oksana Vladimirovna no longer works for us
https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIodOCopjsuGdK9KHW6Ry6Bwd6P9ygXSiPK
Good afternoon, and the composition of the commissions for the protection of course papers on the 13th is already known?
I hope they will write about this by mail
+++ I am already waiting
Yes, it's been a long time since we wrote about retaking the course paper, we will
soon add it to the table
And where can I ask questions about the English exam?
We were sent the regulations, which almost all consists of outdated information on face-to-face examination
Will our exams be offline?
After all, many students will not be able to return from their countries for a session week
As far as I understand, there are no employees of the training school left in this chat (those who were left the HSE)\n\PS Now it is reasonable to send all questions to the mail to Tatyana Albertovna Pak \n For urgent questions in the tg,
it may be advisable to add them here?
if anyone has any contacts
Their this who?
They hardly need it.
I think now they are actively looking for new employees in our training. When they find it I think they will add it here
We have two exams - English and Economics. As far as I know and remember, both are online
Will our exams be offline?
No one knows about the winter session and so far they are not even planning any specifics
There should still be a CD for quality assurance and testing at some point
Thanks! That's what interested me
A good way to get into the maga
reportage,
Where can I suggest an initiative topic for the course work?
I think we will find out on 12.10.2020 at 18: 00
Find a researcher, then fill out the form, everything was in the letter
I didn't find the form
There is a file for the application and a link to the form in Google
And why is it only until October 15
Because they already threw it two weeks ago
Yes, there was a letter dated September 21. And is an initiative project = = an initiative topic for the course?
Yes
You take a random topic, in March you change both it and the researcher
We now have a course project instead of a course work
Something was somehow wrong before
Yes, I missed this moment somehow. Now we need to solve the initiative topic faster, if we take
Here
Maybe we can extend the acceptance of applications? And then it turns out that there is a desync with the choice of ordinary topics
+
In any case, there will be a meeting on the 12th
There seems to be up to 15 applications, up to 30 of them are approved
Well, yes, okay, we'll find out later
And does the delivery of term papers after retaking have a commission?
Yes,
the commission in the plan is after the 13th? I
heard, it seems, after 15... 13.10.20
- the last commission
seems to be... It is better to ask Julia Oris
It's like one of the two dates for retaking. For the course only two attempts? the
first date was in the spring.
Only for those who missed the spring for a good reason, there may be another commission
Are you talking about the main exam?
about the defense of the course in the spring
Well, yes, I'm just saying that our exams usually have a system of the main exam, retake and commission, and now only the main exam and retake. The students chose between the 7th and the 13th, and did not fall on both dates
And the commission is appointed in 1 day and you have no choice
What?\nFor any discipline, there must be a handover, retake and commission
https://www.hse.ru/studyspravka/porlik
For students who have academic arrears on course work, only one retake is organized, which is accepted by the commission.
This is a quote
We had a commission last year
I think they just didn't fix it. This contradicts the Popatkus
Yes. This is not true.

2.3-02/1009-01\n
10.09.2020\n
About changing the topics and course work managers of students of the educational program "Software Engineering" of the Faculty of Computer Science\n
Dean Arzhantsev I. V.
And what will happen to the exams if we have a student with a coronavirus on the stream?
Do we have full-time exams?
Economy
We have it online on rupa?
The lecturer said at the beginning of the lecture that there will be a test on computers in computer classes for 30 minutes
https://yadi.sk/d/DpkcXlpPY_TTxg
If there were problems with the site during the loading of the CD (the Internet worked at the same time), there is an error screen. Was it possible to upload after 00:00 because of this, there will be no problems on the protection?
Good morning!\n at night I uploaded the PZ to the antiplagiat, there are no results yet. Is it normal that he takes so long to check?\n\nThe KR project uploaded everything except anti-plagiarism
There's something wrong with him. Explain on the defense if you have any questions
Will the results of the form for initiative course work be uploaded at the end of October or twice: first tomorrow, then at the end of October?
There is a link to the table with other projects in the LMS
Thanks
https://cs.hse.ru/cppr/project_work#apply_for_initiative_projects
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1I4SBYzZZl4-_afnsaEwyrXtLI_QezHWZq0aJULCc5-w/edit?usp=sharing
IMPORTANT! \ n1) all students, regardless of whether you have chosen a project from the database or proposed an initiative one, must fill out and sign an application and upload a scanned copy of it to the form by 23: 59 on November 01, 2020 (Monday).All the necessary links are also laid out in section 1.1 of the "Materials" in the LMS disciplines "28092020 Course project, 3rd year of PI".Based on the responses to the form, we will send to your supervisors for approval the lists of students submitted for each project. If you do not provide data about the selected project, you will not be included in these lists and in the order.\n \n2) Your signature in the application, as well as the signature of your supervisor, can be made using electronic tools (SignPDF and similar resources).
2️ ⃣ days until the completion of the SOP from the module 🚀
3rd course M FCN BPI181 Bogdanov Viktor Alekseevich\n3 course M FCN BPI182 Globin Anatoly Anatolyevich\n3 course M FCN BPI182 Gubaidullin Harry Stanislavovich\n3 course M FCN BPI183 Glushko Alexander Alexandrovich\n3 course M FCN BPI183 Zaidullin Artem Arturovich\n3 course M FCN BPI183 Makarov Vladimir Evgenievich\n3 course M FKN BPI184 Baidarov Egor Germanovich\n3 course M FKN BPI184 Shebarshin Pavel Vladimirovich\N Pass the SOP
No one has any information when we will have a tutorial again
And that's what Shan asks
And this looks like a statement. Like, don't even ask.
In October, we updated one of the main HSE documents - the Regulation on the organization of intermediate Certification and current monitoring of student Progress (POPATKUS). We have prepared a succinct overview of the most important changes and today we will tell you about them.\n\One of the main innovations is the appearance of a new Application (the document was attached). It describes in detail what to do in case of technical problems.We have prepared a simple and clear training manual for you on the cards.
And here is the text of the Application itself
And if the breakage is long-term, then this is a minus of the stip?
So the fifth card
that is, if the Internet is turned off, is this a valid reason for retaking?
If it has disappeared for reasons independent of you
It will be necessary to provide the training office with proof that it was not up to you
And how to get them? (evidence? )
? +
Request from the provider, from the company supplying electricity, HOA/CC
Well, some help from the provider
Depending on the problem
And how can you find out what is considered a short-term and long-term communication disorder for an independent English exam?
5 minutes offline
Before 5-briefly, after-for a long time
Thanks
Then it makes sense to record your computer screen throughout the exam
Well,I'm not sure
I do not know how the examus works and how it will react to this, it is better to ask Tatyana Albertovna here
In general, we will have a reserve day of 23
As I remember it
So it's still up to you
Well, I mean that they should definitely be considered as a valid reason
Well, it's better to clarify this\pIbo you never know how the examus will react to another application with the right to record the screen and for what method of cheating it will take it
Then write down what you said
Yes, I already somehow gave up on this idea...
well, okay, I can ask
Hello! Tell me, if I was taken on a course project from the sent list, what actions do I need to do next?
In the LMS it is written in clause 1.1. And I sent out the ad. Fill out the application, sign, fill out the form, attach the application to it.\pvse links in the LMS clause 1.1\\
I didn't get an answer, but there were no problems on the test exam in the examus
Hello, wasn't the independent exam supposed to start at 13: 00? I
just don't have it in the examus
It's at 14: 00
are there such cool gentlemen like me who are not allowed
to enter our wonderful examus
Yes
Guys, the examus does not work
Yes
stupidly throws out for authorization
+ do
I look like an idiot
?
in their opinion, apparently, yes
I solved the problem of the campaign
Allow cookies in chrome in icognito
I'm so into it
It's been a while since the exam started
Well, I meant \went into the elk\
I can't log in to the ex itself
I didn't even get into the elk
We fill out the form, apparently
+
Guys, have you solved the problem or not?
-
What should I do in the end if I couldn't start? I filled out the form, is that all?
Yes, you can, submit a new application, specify all the team members
Or maybe the problem is that some guys with pmi?
The order will include the topics that you write in the applications and fill out in the application form
The problem lies in the different organization of the process - there are control points on the PMI. \pI there are different reports on programs - you write technical documentation, PMI write a report
if you are not afraid of these risks, you can create a team.\n In the description about the full name, write the group
Okay, thanks
Updating the page helped
I tried to log in many times through incognito, each time he simply offered to fill in the fields without errors again. I filled out the form and decided to try to pass without incognito, I turned off all auto-correctors, as it was in the instructions, but the erroneous words were still underlined. In this case, will it be necessary to retake?
Ask a question to the Pack in the mail
Okay, thanks
How to quickly get through to Pak?
I really need a
Tg for
example in economics
About it and the question is
yes, for example, in economics
)
dc there is no accumulation in this module
And dz we did
what for the ekz then in the test at once
It doesn't work that way
We can't have a total for one rating set
Because of this, there were problems with Green in the fall
He must provide estimates for the control within 10 days after the control
After the control
And about what?
Like, it should be known in a week, no?
The only joke is that our formula is invalid
And in general, this exam violates the provision, since it will be evaluated for it as for certification
And due to the fact that the teacher learned about this rule only on the last pair from me, he did not have time to replay and change the formula)
The accumulation does not exist at all for a year) only the estimates for the control elements, which in 10 days after the control should be one hundred pro
If more than 10 days have already passed since the dz deadline ?
I will try to correct the pud in the second module, but for now I will have to play with what is there
Well, the assessment for work at seminars does not have a deadline, for example...
Well, a colloquium is aka work at seminars
We have an estimate for the same dz
Where?
Presentation of
different groups
Ah, different seminarians, exactly the same
You haven't had the control element yet so
The control element in this case is the protection of the presentation, which
is generally the same in the next module
And then how will our assessment be formed if the protection is in module 2 ?
We had a specific dz
Well
Where are all the canvases
And so on
all the dz in the evaluation in the 2nd module
So good
And what about the 1 module ? There should also be an assessment, you can't just take an assessment for an ex and slap it there
Let's go through the steps then
How much does the ex weigh then?
100%?
Dz ≠ element of control \ n I honestly do not understand how they consider the assessment and I will deal with it in the second module\n now I was told that the assessment for the module is equal to the assessment for the exam
As far as I know, this is also not possible
This is also a violation
You are absolutely right, but I found out about it the day before the session)
The control element can't weigh more than 70 in my opinion
Well
And the colloquium?
Some nonsense
+
+
+
And I do not know what a colloquium is)\Do not look at the pud, everything is bad there and you need to change
Working at seminars
By the way, that year m
was the same situation with green
and we changed the formula on the day of the exa
+
in fact, after the ex),
he did something like total = max (dz, ex)
Krch I will try to solve it, but I do not promise
The problem is that the dz seems to have no evaluation at all
Krch everything is bad and unclear
I don't know you, but I already love you
So much
And where should I click the cc?
Before the cc, you need to write an AR)
And pac
Why do we find out about this in the chat the day before the exam?
I'll write in two hours
Pusho no one itched
☺ ️
Not quite. 0.7 0.3 maxmin
A week ago, I asked him by mail when the savings will be put up
He didn't answer me at all
😉
So, wait, did he change the formula?
It's about a toad
Last year's
Oh, oh, don
't panic)
Well, is there any news?
No(
Ignored the type?
It is very cool to learn at the exam that it completely goes into the result
Yes, you can't do that zhe((((
Both)\pNu if they do not answer, then not only I will notice it, but also three more addressees in the copy, so... did
you ask about clarifying the formula?
Or ratings for the control elements?
Yeah, and
I understand about the ratings
https://bpm.hse.ru/Runtime/Runtime/Form/EXPB__f__NewRequestAnonymous/
))))
Dear students! Feel free to submit your abstracts to the MSU student conference! Many of you have good results of KR. Be sure to try it!
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6500/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6500/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6500/page/1745
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6080/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6137/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6138/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/rus/event/6108/
https://lomonosov-msu.ru/file/event/6500/eid6500_attach_646e3ca5a64d98ccba196b8aede11e08b29ebc73.pdf
https://vk.com/rsso_ruso?w=wall-27892399_877
Good afternoon. I am asking you to participate in the educational process in the discipline \ Architecture of computing systems\ in the second year of the PI direction. This is the second module. The main functions are checking tasks in assembler and multithreaded programming. I took the same assembler as before (FASM), although I allowed the possibility of using other versions. But these others can be dumped on me. For verification, the same tasks that were in previous years remained.\This applies to the second module. These will be three tasks on multithreaded programming. The first is a regular sequential program. The second is its multithreaded counterpart. The third is a detailed report (in the form of a micro-project) with an analysis of performance for various parameters and the formation of time characteristics. The content of the prk has changed somewhat compared to previous years, since this is the first year for me. But perhaps someone will be interested in repeating and mastering this material.\pS with hopes for cooperation, Alexander Ivanovich Legalov
Hello! I had a failure on the NE in English, they answered me on elearn that they would consider the appeal. I filled out all the necessary forms, but no response was received. I wrote again, they told me to contact the UO. Can you tell me who to write to?
Pac
The same problem, still not answered
She doesn't answer
Well, there is no one else. You can add Katsnelson to the correspondence and just raise the message up once a week.
It is also necessary to put Shilov and Ilya Yuryevich Samonenko, Deputy Dean for academic Affairs, in a copy. You can also Voznesenskaya Tamara Vasilyevna, the first deputy.the dean.
Dear students who did not choose the project! Three projects by Denis Simagin from Yandex have just appeared. Pay attention to them, very interesting tasks, but quite complex.
A student is wanted!
I urgently need a student for a research project, but there the Unity prototype code will need to be finished
We can't contact the supervisor, because the head of the department does not give out his contacts
This applies to 5-7 students
>> You can have an electronic signature\n\Pony for some reason they want it on Tuesday live
Maybe you can pre-upload it without the signature of the supervisor, and upload it a little later?
[ Resolved ]
I'm sorry I saw you late. It's good that everything has been resolved
Sorry to bother you!
Everything is right. If you have any questions, write
On static analysis in ISP, a researcher is an employee of the HSE and not a mentor\n\nNo I do not know if this is mandatory
If the manager does not work at HSE, then a co-manager will be assigned to you. Most likely, Shilov V. V.\nNo the head can draw up a contract with the HSE, then only he will be the head, without a co-head.
If he manages several students, it is in his interests to draw up a contract.
Okay, thanks
Recall the academy.to managers. These applications were submitted after the deadline, I think this is the reason.
Okay, thanks. I hope that they will look at it :)
Will it still be possible to send the form with the course paper tomorrow?
I understand correctly that it is necessary to send the applications themselves to the post office for the signature of the Academy. Don't you need a manager? Upload them only with your signature to the form?
And with the signature of the scientific director
And so yes
Good evening, everyone, there was a small problem. My supervisor and I have long agreed on the course work, but now he does not respond to letters asking him to sign an application. Is it possible to send it without the signature of the supervisor yet?
You can try to call 👀
A day off, an evening - such a thing
and there is no phone
Makarov did not answer me for 3 days before the defense of the cadet on the 2nd course)))
There are in the table of project topics like
Well, there is time until the end of Monday at least,
isn't there? not until November 1?
I remember up to 2
In the form up to 1, valid
Weird
Found out why I thought before 2
https://zoom.us/j/91724468296?pwd=a2N2aVNKZHhqRHlHOENmbjdhSXNwQT09
Can
The application must have 2 signatures - the student and his supervisor (not the academic supervisor, but the project manager)
For now, send it as it is
Until November 1 inclusive
The supervisor replied, thank you!
We do not pass a course report. Only a set of technical documentation. Therefore, now-the draft tor
A good experience in Perm! But the technical documentation is also a good experience
We also wrote tech. docks)
Guys, can you throw off your work for that year? It is very interesting to see how everything should be arranged
On defense, they didn't get to the docks
Thanks)
And what to do if the researcher does not answer
who? last name?
The problem is solved
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1G4td-s1BGK5yDa2DfWoyh7zctG_ksx-ExFZoiQCZl68/edit?usp=sharing
Good evening, highlighted in yellow, were sent again, as in the first statements I forgot to specify the topic in Russian.
I delete the first, I leave the second, yes?
different topics are indicated
one of the topics goes to the IUP for the 2nd course
I wrote it in the application
I see. It's good that I didn't delete it ))
I got 4 statements in the table, leave these 2, and delete the second 2
Thank you very much
so. Wait a minute. I will clarify,
I delete lines 51 and 65? and
even
more important\n1) if they ask you to enter your full name, you need to enter your Last Name, then your First Name, then your Patronymic! This is important! This is a type string!\n2) a space in the string (at the beginning or at the end) is a character in the string! If there is a space at the end of a line, this line is not the same without a space!\nwhy it seemed that the students of the 2nd and 3rd courses know this themselves... You
can delete line 164
I re-sent it, because the first time it was without the signature of the scientific director
Upload the application without the manager's signature, fill out the form
Understood, thank you
We'll fix it later
Good evening, and we only need to fill out the form from the application letter or attach the application to the lms?
You will need to attach the draft TOR to the LMS.\nThe application is only attached in the form
Understood, thank you
And in the form of a supervisor/mentor-is it a research assistant from the HSE or a consultant?
Why is a mentor not a leader?
I am from ISP\n\n I have a mentor, who is the actual supervisor, and a research assistant, who is a formal research assistant from the HSE.
Oh, yes, I remember. Is the mentor definitely not at the Department of Joint Venture?
The mentor is definitely not from the HSE
As a result, I indicated in the form as a supervisor/mentor someone who is not from the HSE
It is not yet known in what month we will have the protection of the Kyrgyz Republic?Last year, the third year was in April. Should we also focus on April?
I think, yes, focus on April
IMPORTANT!!! 👆
And hasn't the deadline already passed according to the form?
All 3rd year students have applied for a course project!We proceed to the next procedure - we are preparing a draft of the TOR, which will need to be uploaded to the LMS.
Deadline is the end of the month?
In lms, the deadline is like 10 or 15, but even somehow it hurts quickly
15
Ay
Ay November
15?
Say that the nei
dc in the lms is hanging the project for several days the
deadline is November 15, 2020.
For research papers, do I need to download the introduction from the work itself ?
Do you already have the job itself? I would say an introduction to the work.
Are there any examples of the design of such an introduction?
I am also interested
because this is the first time I will write a research project
Is this suitable as an introduction?
This is my last year, as I understand it, we are writing research like this
No
There are also all the requirements and an example of an annotation in the lms for the 2nd course,
thank you!
isn't a review of sources / analogues necessary? Look in the LMS
Hello. On the first of November, I uploaded an application without a signature, now I have added an application with a signature to the form
It's great, but who writes it?
Komshina Darya Olegovna
OK, check it out
Thanks!
Everything was fixed in the table
+ , and can I have more examples of the command TK?
15 need a general TK, or an archive of 2?
for the command naturally
Here, too, I was looking for it, right?
p. 1.4-let's pay attention?
Do I need to retell it in my own words here?
This is from the item Regulatory documents
This is in the item About GOST standards
I see, thank you very much!
It is better to change it now
Just fill out the topic selection form again?
Yes. And write which line to Delete
Due to the large number of questions on the team project, this item was taken out separately in the Materials in the LMS, see p. 2.\n \ If a course project on software development is carried out by a group of students, then the corresponding documentation is issued by each student separately for their part of the work – a subsystem of the software system developed by the group.\n\nThe group also provides two additional documents:\ n 1) general technical specification for the entire software system, on the basis of which specific technical specifications for the development of subsystems are formulated;\n 2) the program and test procedure for the entire system.Thus, to protect the Course project in the documentation package, each student will have a complete set of documents for their part + a general TOR and a general PMI for the entire system.\n\Please note that the backend developer should most likely have, not the operator's manual, but the programmer's manual and/or the system programmer's manual.\n\n In the general Terms of Reference in the section \ Stages and stages of development\, it is necessary to specify the responsible contractor for each item or stage.\The task can be performed by several team members, i.e. you can specify more than one student.Even if one responsible person is specified for the item, this does not mean that only this responsible person will develop some part of the software. But it will be he who will design and protect this part of the development.\n \ pC 15.11.2020 it is necessary to submit a general TOR for the team + a TOR for your part of the development as a team member
The LMS contains information on research and team projects.\If you have any questions or comments, please write.
This is for Tatyana Albertovna
Although now
The question seems to have been resolved
Super
It's been two months since that moment, and you're just now asking?)
My supervisor just told me that as far as he knows, there are no group coursework in the third year, and I'm already fully involved in the project. He's wrong, right?)
Wrong
Here are the ladushki
There are team (group) course projects in the 2nd and 3rd courses
And isn't it on 4?
Or am I confusing something?
on 4, a group project is different
And what is there then?
That's what it's called in the curriculum-a team project on software engineering. All in teams
So if I took on a team one?)
Why is this possible then?
So everything is fine, you did everything right)
This year is a course project, which can be both individual and team, and next year is just a team project
These are different disciplines just
Oh, that's it, I got it wrong. That is, all WRCs are team-based?
Or is it separate?
The WRC and the group project are different they
are 2 different works in the 4th year
Ah, got it, okok
Yes, there is no order number yet. It will be in December
Got it ) thanks
And the signature of the supervisor is needed when uploading to the lms?
Yes, I need it
Online again?
did you not see the order or something? Everything is online!
So he's with 16?
will the buildings be closed?
No.
And you need to pass it before 15, so I ask
News item,
Who should I write as an artist on the title page of the general TOR for a team project?
all participants
Now you can't book an audience?(((
all team members
I don't know, this is not a question for me. But I think that if it is possible to come to the corps, then it is also possible. I'm not sure
Write to the CPSI and that's it, they respond quickly
There seems to be no time for a face-to-face consultation.\If you broadcast from there to online like yes,
well, the second option at least, because I doubtfully succeed in drawing formulas with the mouse
Comrades, is it necessary to sign the Title page of the TOR / Annotations from Shilov?
I don't think so?вроде it
seems to have been written somewhere above that only the signature of the scientist is
Do I need to upload LUS with signatures separately, or can they just be made in a file with tk?
No
Thanks!
You can do it in one file
Hello, there was a question\n \ If at the time of drawing up the application for the course work, the supervisor was not an employee of the HSE and Grinkrug E. M. was indicated as a supervisor, \n\nNo now the supervisor was included in the LMS, then it is worth specifying a real supervisor in the TOR?\n\pI what should I do with the statement then?
It is necessary to specify in the TOR and re-enter the application in the table, upload the signed application. Should I tell which line to delete
Yes, you can
We can extend it))) how are you?
No,
Yes,
Apparently things are not very ...
Clear ))
yes!
Is the server and binder exactly suitable? There are no telecommunications there? Look, pliz. Common to both parts of M. B. 04.01, yes
Deadline - 22.11.2020 inclusive
02.07 \ Software that provides interaction between various applications, systems, components( middleware), including software interfaces (APIs) for system integration.\\Ntransmission of video over IP is also available in the same paragraph
Ah, then it fits, yes. For the entire system 04.01, for the server part 02.07, as you wrote
Okay, thanks
thank you!
👍🏿
Novak Vasily Andreevich\pPetrov Danil\pProskurin Valery Gennadievich\Pryabtsev Yaroslav Ivanovich\pFomin Sergey Dmitrievich\n
Danil Petrov - one of them goes to the IUP for the 2nd course
Thank you, I understand
Proskurin Valery Gennadievich-340 the line should be deleted
ok
Sergey Fomin-334 delete the line (which was earlier)
well
Novak Vasiliyandreevich-delete line 296
Globin Anatoly Anatolyevich\pZakirullin Daniil Rimovich\pKarpova Alexandra Evgenyevna\pKusakin Alexander Alexandrovich\pMakarov Vladimir Evgenyevich\pNguen Min Fuk\Psolomentsev Yaroslav Grigoryevich\Pchertanov Denis Alekseevich\n
Globin in the academy
Thank you, accepted
Zakirullin wrote that he left for an exchange in Germany
wow! Thanks! And when will he return?
Min Fook is being expelled
I don't know about that
Thank you, it is accepted
write the line number
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1G4td-s1BGK5yDa2DfWoyh7zctG_ksx-ExFZoiQCZl68/edit?usp=sharing
In this table there is no(
vk.cc/aB6tKy
Fill it out again?
You probably didn't fill it out
Yes fill it out now
OK, thanks for
filling it out
Good afternoon.\n\If you can't go to the university, how can I take the certificates?
I just found out
For now, you can
Have the passes been dropped yet?
I can't answer this question
Ok.
Everything is fine with the pass, I came in today
They said they would block it... it is not known from what date.
well, thank you
+, I would not like to gather with my wards online
It seems that if there is a ban on face-to-face classes, then at least common sense prohibits holding mass face-to-face consultations.
Dear students! I invite you to become teaching assistants in AISD in the second semester.\The next tasks of the UA will be-the development of contest tasks, the development of checkers (dream), the verification of contest tasks.\n \ Air defense in the second semester, seminars on AISD will be conducted by the team: Akhmetsafina R. Z., Vargulev A. S. We hope that Nikolai Chuikin and Maria Gordenko will join us. This is still inaccurate.\We will work with the Yandex contest. Only with him. No tests and no homework, because you know that there are a lot of students in the 2nd year. The formula will be-0.5 contests + 0.5 exam.We really need you! Let's make AISD seminars better!
Dear students!When dealing with questions about projects, immediately provide information\n1) who are you, which group\n2) who is your project manager\n3) What project are you performing : name, research/program, individual / team.\pOchen many responses to your emails look like this:\n1) who writes this?\n2) who is the manager?\pi, etc.\n We will not respond to letters and messages without specifying the necessary information
Dear students! The decision of the HSE operational staff to block students ' passes to the HSE buildings was canceled at an operational meeting with the rector.\n\pS Tomorrow, the opportunity for students to enter the HSE buildings will be restored.
Hello! Tell me, do we have a session schedule?
Good afternoon! We need to ask Natalia Devisheva. She makes a schedule
The address must be on the website
Good evening!\n\pVopros for those who know, is the cover open on Sundays?
If you still need an answer to this question, I was told that all the tower buildings are closed tomorrow
Whether this applies to all Sundays, I do not know
according to the open closed
According to the autopsy, it is not closed) I found out today)
https://cs.hse.ru/cppr/best_projects
And what is the principle of choosing the best projects?
And these are the projects that are uploaded to the project \ Best works\. I have asked everyone many times to upload their work if the score is 8+
Ah, I see... he
can still accept work, if there are those who wish)
And why can't one of the teachers simply choose the best projects from all those that were made in the academic year? Do I need the author's consent to publish?
of course! And you need to understand what students are ready to publish
The Best Works project is open again
One can ask the question, what is the practical sense in uploading a course paper to the Best works?
Except for the chance to make history
Colleagues, I remind you of the need to pass the SOP of the following students:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfpgwXvnZ-itLKl5KdjwX0j6Nx9-KsuiZRW2OG0OiWd6dY2hg/viewform
https://vk.com/wall-69306530_4240
Good evening, there was a small problem. We have loaded the topics of term papers in the LMS, but our team (Oleg Oparin and Anastasia Kukina) has loaded the wrong one, not quite our topic, what should we do, who should swear?
Yes, Happy New Year to all!: z
Subject: client-server application for finding tutors\PV LMS:
Our project with Andrey was hijacked...
Everyone who has problems with topics in the LMS should write to T. Pak.
Good night, does anyone know whether the distribution of distance and full-time classes in ruza is correct now?
It seems that everything should be online for now
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tPKInSflthW_TfL0tiayUYAq-KzlstwOhkjblXWcxDY/edit#gid=0
Please tell me what is happening with the certificates now and what date of receipt of the certificate can I count on?\ pGalina Sergeevna Katsnelson does not answer either the mail or the phone call 🙂
I join the question
https://medium.com/.../data-analytics-evolution-351520202e65
https://hh.ru/vacancy/41651349
https://hh.ru/vacancy/41651520
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aita
We have questions - who is the head of both projects? We need to write a statement about changing the project. Information about this is in the LMS
well, thank you
Is there a link to ux research?
It's like no today
They disappeared from the schedule today
OK
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeMuuwTLUbnzoaRUu8MLfgiyehFh1BMN4zG79-VoIjwAYvvuw/viewform
UX Research Course-chat
https://t.me/joinchat/HqDIxBOYDXDWAa3R
Maximov Anton Sergeevich, contact me
When will the schedule for the protection of term papers become known?
3rd year - the second half of April
Thanks
Are we defending ourselves in the second half of April, or will the schedule be known?
And as for the announcement of grades for the English exam, there is no information yet?
You are defending yourself in the second half of April.\pGrafik is just starting to make up.\As soon as the office puts down the days and hours of protection, we will start forming commissions
Can you suggest the procedure for changing the topic of the course? Has the process changed?
It is necessary to submit an application for changing the topic. To do this, fill out the form and attach an application to it. The links must be in the LMS
Thanks!
😞
Thank you for the question. \n1) Probably, it is better to write Please change my topic.... to.....\n2) This is not a template, this is an example. There should also be a template there, look at\n3) it is different from last year - there were term papers, now there are course projects
The template only has this note at the bottom
Well, write as I wrote above. It will be clearer.
Well
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tYeh1IC5ISOwrK14dsNQrIo4rlTMt-Ro/view
And what is the deadline for the shift? Tell me please
A month before the sewn-up. It turns out on March 15
And when will the protection dates appear? The first defense is right on April 15?
They promise in about a week
The office makes a schedule
https://safeboard.kaspersky.ru/events/
Dear students! You can submit materials to the conference of young scientists SYRCOSE, they are accepted until April 1. Details in the attached file
I join the question
That year, everyone defended themselves separately
One after the other in the same commission. The sophomore will defend himself in May, alone
And how about each other? Our team was dispersed on different days.
Switch with someone
Agree
+
Similarly
In principle, all mobile phones from Perm were scattered in different groups
Write to Natasha Devisheva
And those who have chosen the specialization \ System Programming\, will they have defenses at the HSE or at the ISP RAS ?
Is it planned to redo the defense schedule so that all people from the same teams go on the same day in a row?
Here
is a real-time Table?
yes, but you yourself must find an exchange and write to Natasha Devisheva
It should be yes
in the Spanish Academy of Sciences. A question for everyone in the specialization - will you all defend yourself in the ISP RAS? We will now form a separate commission (or two) for you. Are there any students who would like to defend themselves at the HSE? (all online)
Yes, they are now planned online, if there are no new orders for the HSE. In Europe, for example, in some places they are again introducing a red mode - everything is closed, you can not walk. It's hard to guess
Good afternoon! What will happen to the places of those who will leave for a separate commission of the ISP WOUND? Will it be possible to enroll there to move to your project team?
Yes, of course. Write to Natalia Devisheva, she will move you
I have not yet been sent the day and time for the Spanish, while we are waiting
Thanks
And do I need to move within the same commission in order to be close to my teammate?
Of course, it is desirable. It's not difficult at all
Good afternoon, and if the term paper is written in English, is it necessary to defend yourself in English?
Yes, absolutely
Okay, thanks
On March 26, at 18:00, a lecture from JetBrains is scheduled as part of the IT lecture, after which it is planned to make an announcement about this year's internships.
https://cs.hse.ru/announcements/452135699.html
We are looking for one person in the group for the pass
Good morning. Please tell me, do foreign students also need SNILS?
Good afternoon! And you can also change the theme of the CD? \The scientific supervisor remains the same
A month before the protection is possible. You can't do it now
Directions are
here,
Deep Dive,
How long does it last
Important:
Where you
need to be able to
How is the selection process going?
https://cutt.ly/QxTTYpc
As far as we know, the fork for intern developers is somewhere in the region of 60k gross / month for 40 hours
The tower returns to offline\n\n
https://www.hse.ru/our/news/454934118.html
https://www.hse.ru/our/news/454928571.html
Good morning. Is it necessary to allocate the program text in a separate document? Is it possible to issue it as a link to the github and, if so, in what document?
I'll post an example this evening
How to issue links to the repository
Okay, thanks
I haven't posted it yet and I won't post it today, I don't have time
Okay, got it
Rimma Zakievna, and where can I find the number of the order on the approval of the topics of term papers? It doesn't seem to be in the LMS
And Rimma Zakievna, you promised to lay out the rules for creating a link to the repository, they don't seem to be in the LMS either
Yes, there is no LMS. We need to request a training office. Write to the curator of the 3rd course of PI
Yes, I haven't posted any more examples of documentation. If I send it here for now, and then I post it, is it okay?
Yes
Example of formatting the program text with links to the repository
Thanks!
And another question about the description. My program will continue to develop in the future, and in the future - this is also on the days of passing the course paper. Do I need to somehow indicate on what date I am describing the repository structure?
You can specify a link to the commit\n\nUPD instead of a link to the repository: it's not worth it, read a little below
Option
It is better to specify
I'm not sure. The example that is posted has been corrected 10 times
I'm sorry!
Okay Thanks)
Dear students! The defense of course projects will begin soon. Please check the names of your projects and the names of the managers in the LMS.\If the project theme does not match the theme in the LMS, the protection will not take place.
Mobile phones in the LMS still do not have coursework (((
This is not a term paper, but a course project. Definitely not? Urgently write to Pak T. A.
Good evening, can I still correct the title of the topic of the course work now? And in the column type of work there is a project, while I have a research work, is this how it should be?
+ The same thing
(In the column of the type of work there is a 'project', not a research one)
And, accordingly, can the topic also be adjusted in the annotation?
Should the \name \ column contain the name of the entire group project or only the part that is being performed?
Does anyone have a Research job listed in the Type of work column? Please respond!
i have
What is the adjustment? Changing the topic is no longer possible. You can correct errors
so this is possible?\ When those who plan to change the type of work, urgently write to the training office with a copy to the practice center. It is necessary that the data is the same everywhere,
similarly, there must also be a research program
That is, if I have a research program, but the project is worth it-to go to school to write?
and who can tell the addresses to which to write?
I made a mistake, I'm sorry. Also a project,
then maybe you don't need to write yet?
+, Also a project, there should be a research one
+
+ throw off where to write about an error with the type of course work,
so it's from the curriculum, you have a course project
No one needs to write, but in general, all the links are in the LMS. And there is also a link to the file with all the links ))
https://forms.gle/roFENTKsERNSn6kt6
I join the question. The lms specifies a group topic, is this how it should be?
Have you changed the topic? When and how?
I also have a group topic specified, not a personal one
And I have a group
And what should I do if there is an empty line in the manager column ? \n \ cAve, I have somewhat understood that if the course project is a research work, and the type of work in the column is \Project\, then everything is fine and nothing needs to be changed ?
No, they didn't change the
+? and what should it be?
Write about the head to the CPPR and to the Training Office.\ nPro project - everything is fine
Then why do you ask that such a topic is specified?
That is, it is normal that a group is specified?
It was up to you and your supervisor to decide what was best. If the topic is the same, then the content of the works will differ for a long time
???
Good afternoon! Please tell me, in the wording about loading docks 3 days before protection, does it mean 3 days inclusive?\ That is, those who are protected on 17.04 need to upload documents on 14.04?
And where to upload them? We load the PZ in the WRC tab/KR, right?\n\pA for the documentation and the entire project, last year we created a separate project, and this year how?
There will also be a separate project
Who of the speakers at the conference asked to put the speech earlier? Admit it, we are making a program.
The basis for the development (in the program documentation): \pTak
2) projects have been created in the LMS to upload materials for the defense of the course project\n3) \Rules of preparation have been added...projects\ + separately, applications that have a lot of useful\n4) added information on the new classifier BY
Good afternoon!\n \ nThe question is: what should I do with the Program text document if the course paper is a piece of a commercial project?\n\n I have a question about the course work in ISPe, it seems they do not want their sources to be in the documentation; some of the guys had a similar question with other companies
And in the WRC/KR for team projects, do I need to upload an individual PZ? Or individual + general?
There is no general pz
Tk is individual and general, pz I have not heard that it was common
Individual and general-TK and PMI. Everyone has their own explanatory note
You will defend yourself in the ISP, and you will decide everything there.
That is, you can not ship TP to the LMS?
And why are there only \Research\ and \Applied\project types in the table?\n\pu me in the docks indicated \Software\, is this the same as \ Application\?
yes,
And do group projects represent separately or together?
within one course - together
example: a team of 2 people from the second year, 1 from the third\A person from the third defends himself in April\n2 people from the second defend together in May
good day!\n\n who should I write to if the PZ is checked in the anti-plagiarism system for more than 12 hours? \n\n last year, they seemed to re-load the work in such cases, what should we do now?
Write urgently.
Good afternoon\If we have a group project within the framework of one course,we need to make one presentation or two?
two, everyone performs with their own part. One of you can tell the general part, the second can not duplicate it in the report
Good afternoon, if I have a group project with students from another direction, will I need to tell both the general and my parts?
Yes, it's better this way. The general part is shorter, but it is clear
Dear students! The manager of the software Engineering department, Stasia Petrukhina, is connected to the chat. \ pOna prepares materials for the work of the commissions.\n will write to you, please answer
not allowed
protected tomorrow
not uploaded
until 23: 59 today
Those students who are defending themselves on April 19 (Monday) must download all the necessary documentation by 23: 59 today. \n \ nStudents who have protection on April 20 (Tuesday) must upload all materials no later than 16: 00 on Monday.
Otherwise, the commission will have no materials and you will not come to the defense.
Good afternoon! For those who are on the 19th, it seems that the deadline was today, they extended the delivery?
today until 23: 59
atiplagiat
Yes, I made a typo. Thank you for noticing. Today is also the deadline for those who defend themselves on April 19
And why does someone have a deadline of 1 and someone has 3 days. \Did I not understand something?\n\Pet is a concession to students who do not have time for anything?
And when is the deadline for those who defend themselves 24?
Most likely due to the fact that the weekend is not working
The deadline for documents depends on the date of protection. You must download all the documentation 3 days before the protection. You must upload the repo and the presentation a day before the protection.
Is it possible to ask for deadlines to protect 24 for greater clarity?
And on 23 then
Why am I on this list if my defense is on April 24?
I think it's worth writing a name
My defense was moved to 24, but they forgot to remove it from the 2nd commission
Okay, the training office obviously forgot to report this.
Andrey, this is a typo. protection of the 20th-deadline of materials tomorrow, 17.04.2021, time 23: 59
Thanks a lot
Materials = = pz or the entire documentation?
because it doesn't fit with this message
In this project, you need to upload an anti-plagiarism sheet three days before the protection date\n\n1) (for an Explanatory note)\n2) Program documentation\n-TOR\n-Explanatory note\n-Program and test methodology\n-Operator's Manual\n-Program text\n-other, if available\n3) Feedback from the project manager with an assessment
Let me clarify: is it possible to make a presentation in a day?
Do research students need to upload a report to antiplagiat or do they need nothing?
Yes
Report
The order within the commission is not defined, or is it strictly the same as indicated in the plate?
today, the commission followed the sign, but if there was a joint project, they were allowed to change so that students from the same team would tell each other
Such a question:\ My course work is part of a group project. The web interface. \n\nProcessing is a set of files that you just need to throw into a folder on the server. \n\pk As a consequence, as far as I understand, the operator's manual is not applicable here. As well as the system programmer's manual. \n\n am I wrong? Do I need some other document? Or can I just not write anything?
Probably, the system programmer's guide still needs to be compiled. Usually, everyone does not have access to folders on the server. Let it be simple, but it will be
Maximov Anton, send me a sheet with a check for plagiarism. The current file is empty.
Good evening, how much time is given to the commission for a speech (without taking into account questions)? Previously, there were 10 minutes, the guys who defended on Saturday were talking about 5-7
For example, we didn't stop anyone
15 minutes for everything
Which Commission says so?
I don't know exactly, some of those that were yesterday)\ n15 minutes for everything is encouraging more, thank you!
You have a schedule of 15 minutes specified
Good afternoon, today I found out that there is an error in one word in the title, a letter is missing, who needs to write to correct the error ?
Pac and in the CPPR
IMPORTANT!!! Tomorrow, the commission, which is chaired by Irina Alexandrovna Lomazova, will have big time shifts, because not everyone has uploaded materials to the LMS. Keep an eye on the situation, come about 45 minutes earlier, because according to the list of 3-5, 7, 9-10 numbers will not come
The 10th will come. 😎
and the 7th will come ))
and the ninth.... The
shift is canceled
UPD:
Therefore, we ask you to ship the materials in advance, so that you do not write messages in the night 😌
Ovchinnikova Alina and Piskunov Roman, the same story, there are no reviews.
I uploaded it to the lms, I can duplicate it to the mail
, too
Alina, yes, I see a review in the LMS, thank you.
Roman, I don't see your review and an anti-plagiarism sheet. However, all the other documentation is there
And is there one review for the team or for everyone?
for everyone
Thanks.
Managers should send feedback from their corporate email
All managers should send feedback to the mail? Or if there is a review in the uploaded documents, then everything is fine?
The manager should send a review to the post office
Do the managers know this?) Or should I ask them?
They know, but it's still better to remind them.
As practice has shown, not everyone remembers this
Who should we send feedback to?
Well, managers.
Good evening, and what to do if the defense is on the 23rd, and the supervisor said that he will write a review only tomorrow morning? Upload all documents without a review? Or download everything at once tomorrow morning? Will there be any penalties for downloading after the deadline?
Now download everything else, tomorrow you will add a review
Okay, thanks
The following students have a commission tomorrow, but they have not uploaded documents/reviews to the LMS:\ n\Victoria Paverichkina, Egor Baydarov, Alexander Serebrennikov, Ilya Zuev, Yaroslav Solomentsev and Daniel Kapur, you do not have any work loaded in principle in the LMS. \n\pKuryleva Alexander and Boris Malashenko, you have not uploaded reviews. \n\If you do not upload the materials within an hour, you will not be allowed to defend.
https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYld-CtpzgtE92cDZwmDYO5iktAg472W0vr
Good afternoon, will there be a recording? we will
do it
Thanks!
Can
If the supervisor mixed up the group number in the review, do I need to re-send the correct version to the LMS?
No
In the second commission, the following students have no feedback from their supervisors in the mail: \ pKukina Anastasia\Pmoldavsky Denis\Pserdyukov Mikhail \ pAndreeva Sofia\pPanova Ekaterina \n\n \ pOparin Oleg and Frolova Elizabeth did not upload materials at all.
No reviews in the lms or in the mail? I uploaded the review about an hour ago (Anastasia Kukina)
Not at the post office.
Well, I have already written to the scientific supervisor about the mail
I kind of uploaded the same
Or was it necessary not to load it into the LMS project?
This afternoon, while the deadline was on Tuesday
We need more feedback from the manager in the mail.
Yes, we have the same project with Anastasia Kukina, so both reviews should come soon
Well, I'm waiting for
Mikhail Alexandrov, there is also no review of your supervisor in the mail
I wrote to the manager, he said that he would send it in the evening
(Moldavsky, Serdyukov) wrote to the scientific supervisor, we are waiting
I have just sent it
Sent
(Moldavsky, Serdyukov) uploaded
Daniel Pleshkov and Mikhail Serdyukov, you have more loans than you should. Managers must write a memo addressed to the head of the OP without fail. If it is approved, then only then will you be allowed to defend
My supervisor indicated in the letter
I saw it, but this is the procedure. Without a note, we cannot allow you to defend yourself.
What kind of note
The letter is not a memo?
This letter does not specify anything about the special format of the note
I just have big doubts now that my supervisor will do this
Your supervisors are adults and should have an idea of how to write memos. They either defended their PhD programs, or work in companies. A memo is a common form, there is nothing complicated in it. Therefore, nothing is written about the form
What happened
Does not enter the conference
https://zoom.us/j/93458244248
The following students have no feedback in the mail from their supervisors:
Nurtdinov Renat \ pRomanov Alexander\pEvdokimov Maxim\pZubarev Alexey
mm cool I told the head that it is necessary to send a review on Tuesday
Nurtdinov and Romanov were sent this morning, I will send them now
Good afternoon! Our review was sent to the post office to V. V. Shilov and Rimma Zakievna. Do I need to duplicate it to the mail of the practice center?
Thank you, Rimma Zakievna!
We wrote to everyone a hundred times that we should send it to the post office of the Central Bank
These students did not upload anything to the lms:\n \ Ptrukhan Ekaterina\pGruzdev Andrey\pGubaydullin Harry\pIvanov Daniel\pInkina Anastasia\pPetrov Danil\Pstartsev Dmitry
Alexey Zubarev, I am waiting for a review from your supervisor
The manager does not respond to any of the communication channels available to me (corporate mail, telegram, tims, phone)\n\n Are there any other ways to contact him through you?
I'll write to him myself
Thanks
Yes, but
I accepted it on Monday, thank you
Now tomorrow. It will definitely be
accepted before lunch, we are waiting for
a presentation already?
I'm waiting for them to cut it
off now I'll post it here, then in the lms
thank you)
thank you
Presentation on practices.\n You can use the FKN template !
forms.gle/k9YyGmtMRN5puKKy7
We need more than 100 people, help us...
There is a HSE contract with Sberbank in the register of contracts, but it is valid until 27.06, and the practice should start in July, if I understood correctly. Is it not scary? Or do you need to sign a contract yourself (as for companies with which HSE does not have a contract)? Is it
possible to find out whether an updated version of documents for international agreements (bilingual agreements) on practices has been released ?
Yes, it is necessary to conclude a contract
while there is no
change, the
link.,
In June, we will choose courses already
The entire tower is in the LMS?
Yes
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1anbamduHo35mnCc7LUKSM6jPu05H3JbxnH03FNQQs2U/edit?usp=sharing
https://zoom.us/j/97176983393?pwd=VEk0VjNBa0U4MU94U0xIMW1VNFRGdz09
https://zoom.us/j/96403408254?pwd=TlhsS2xOeHlGVHZYN3l2WWU2b1FRQT09
Is there a program of practice meetings for today somewhere?
Not yet
The error came out - everything is in the last pinned message. In the program of the meeting, see the sheet 24.05.2021
Good afternoon! Can you tell me, please, whether it is possible to refuse specialization (ISP) for the next academic year and choose a regular course within the framework of elective courses?
Hello, I support the question, only about the 1C specialization
Guys, this is for the training office. Write a Pack
For all those interested, you can
Not serfdom, yes
I didn't really understand. As far as I can see, there is a contract with Kaspersky for practice, but the LC told me that there is still no current contract
And who did you ask there?
Responsible employee in HR
Here is the answer
It's strange how
well, you should take our contract template and send it to them
Okay, but I just thought that the contract already exists
I'm sorry again, maybe I missed it, but what is the \ Name of the component of the educational program\?
Where is this from?
https://cs.hse.ru/cppr/practice#practice_for_students
I don't see such words
I assume that the correct answer is industrial practice
if in the contract, then it is necessary to write \educational practice, industrial practice\
And who should I enter as the head of the HSE practice?
It is still unknown
I'll try to find out something today
To fill out the form at work, I need the name of the supervisor from the HSE. Thanks!
Guys, the SOP is open for passing\pTam now also the course needs to be evaluated
We wrote it ourselves, we evaluated it ourselves
Is it still unknown who the head of the HSE is?
Today at 11 o'clock. there will be a meeting, I will raise this issue. I will write after 12 o'clock.
The head of the practice from the Higher School of Economics-R. Z. Akhmetsafina, Associate Professor of DPI
Hello, could you please tell me where you can find a template for an individual task and a schedule of work for practice? It is necessary to send it to the manager for filling out.
did you look for it in the LMS?
I found it ) thank you :) inattentively searched in the lms )
Is this really a normal letter?
The post office is simply not Vyshkinskaya
I do not advise, however, to click on the link
Because we don't even seem to have such items
I'm not kidding, it's on the link
Seriously?)
Yeah)
Ahahhahah
Yes, there is a redirect to the IP logger 😥
And where is my spam(
Don't deny it.
Only the first two groups
Hello. Can you specify which slides in the presentation are relevant if there are HSE contracts with the company (in the register of practice contracts) and between the student and the company? In this case, you only need an application for an internship?
All you need is a HSE contract with the company.The company's agreements with students are not needed, it is your luck that you have found a job.\nThe practice of the company is not obliged to accept you for jobs
For those who do not want to search for information themselves, the picture
Individual task and schedule.\N Is it really unclear?
creating project groups
https://cs.hse.ru/projectgroup
Are we choosing elective courses tomorrow (almost today)?
If so, where can I see the list of courses offered?
https://www.hse.ru/ba/se/courses?status=2&course=4.1.4.3&page=1&year=2021
zero descriptions, by the way
Where? When? Where is the information from?
Please write someone a Pack and ask
Wrote
Yes, the campaign of elective courses in Smart LMS starts today.\nThe first wave we will spend there.\The information will be available by the time the module is opened.\n\n \n \ pS Sincerely,\n\pTatyana Pak
Is there any way to get more information about the courses of your choice?\n How much to choose, at what time, what, where are the descriptions?\Nwhy did no one warn us about the courses at all?\If no one knows anything and such an outrage is happening, then maybe the choice is not today or it is better to move it?\nThe prospect of choosing blindly does not seem good
Thank you for the timely notification from the training office! Today I don't have any suitable device with me to enroll in a really interesting course for me.
Well, if the choice is based on the rating and not on the speed, then it's okay, probably
And it will definitely be rated? Is this confirmed information? Does the system support this approach? Or is it just guesswork again?
As far as I know, the system does not support rating
The rating that year influenced, there was information that sophomores with a rating choose
that year the distribution by rating was then manually engaged, as far as I remember
this year they may well do the same
Usually, the system did not allow you to choose the courses for which the maximum number of students enrolled, if I am not mistaken.
so now there is another system and waves
Last year, the entry was through a Google form.
There was a different system that year) Here it works very strangely. I clarified, they told me that the recording is for speed, then with increased demand, the rating is somehow applied
In general, we wanted the best, it turned out as always
Guys. I want to remind you that there is no training office in the chat
Good afternoon, and I'm wondering, where do we choose these courses?)
Smart LMS
go to the next page-click on the button Elective courses in the usual LMS
Now guess without instructions.
Thanks.
🤡 🤡 🤡
What should I do? The checkboxes do not work
))) The
site has fallen
7 minutes
fix the death
Request. Please write to Elena Zakharova. Responsible for our course in the textbook and invite her to be added here. Tell me that we do not
have a fluge, I initially did not open the site,
what about the Google form?
if I'm not sitting in the tg, then how can I guess what to choose and how much??
with God's help,
and how much to choose and what ?)
yes, not at all, still does not allow me to choose
+
And what to choose from is at least known?
Or are we trying to have time to take courses purely by name?
+
Someday they will understand that announcing a single course selection time is a bad idea
Even given the fact that actually the choice for retigo, all crammed to choose, so you do not forget
this is because everyone said that the first\kogda any choice of courses will be normal, but it seems not in our lifetime already
there are written when you select the free space, not the fact that by rating
someone could past the first page go? where should I choose the time in the schedule?
it has never been like this and here I am again
tru
this sticker-a symbol of the choice of courses in principle
I'll write to you soon
And what is the division into mathematics and computer science?
and why in computer science soft skills
meh
+
wrote
Guys, the choice was canceled all over the Tower. They want to re-launch on June 9)
That is, now there is no need to press a button?
Yeah
can Google forms please......
OK
))
at least they don't fall when 2 people come...
a possible description of courses, curricula and lists someone how much you choose...
+++++++++++++
Well, this is an echo of the times when the first = best \pBlago rating system was moved here
❗  ❗ ELECTIVE COURSES ❗  ❗ \n\nThe module \ Elective Courses \ was opened in the LMS at 15:00 today. However, for technical reasons, most students did not have a choice of subjects available or there were problems with submitting the form. \n\n In this regard, the Directorate of Basic Educational Programs made the following decision:\n\n 1⃣ Abort the course selection campaign due to technical problems \ n 2⃣ Cancel the entire completed choice due to the lack of a guarantee of its relevance (for those who still managed to submit the form) \n 3⃣ Schedule a re-start of the campaign for June 9, 15:00 and extend the choice until June 14 \n\nThe corresponding message on the portal and comments will appear in the near future.\n\n Stay tuned!
So when the place on the course ends, you will still be able to enroll?
It seems like yes *according to current data, such a function is available*
Has anyone met with such magic in the application for practice?
The question on the topic "How much does everyone care", in an individual task for practice, in what format should the goal of the practice be?
The goal of the type: "Fix bugs so that the user is happy" is suitable?
)))
It is difficult to write when you have been interning for a long time and there are a million tasks
It is better to choose one something more global
And how to formulate it? There is nothing global here now
We are just combing the project
Khy
Attach a photo of the comb
And you don't have to attach a scan of the contract in the application, do you?
in general, it sucks, such a lot of bureaucracy
If the contract already exists, then you only need the application that is filled in by the direct manager
If it has not yet been signed by the cppr, then you can attach a contract for peace of mind
But you will have to enter the contract number when it appears in the list
A list of small tasks for 3 weeks
And it should be loaded up to 1, and not up to 20?
I'm very busy today, all questions are later
Well,
well, this is going to the project in the lms, if you're talking about the schedule
Yes, we will move it
I'll answer the trail. a week. First, we will coordinate some points with the training office
I want to comment that some employees very rarely go to the office. I managed to get a team leader to sign the documents related to the registration, but I did not pay attention to the need for these as well. But I think, since we specify the mail in the application, it is possible to confirm the plan through it
We have 3 weeks of practice\pI then we need to write a statement about the postponement\nest in the LMS
thank you! I saw it!
2 weeks only for 2 courses
The 2nd and 3rd courses have 3 weeks of practice this year !!!
No, the 2nd course also has 3 weeks this year
Ah, I cheated, I'm sorry
Please tell me who will conduct data analysis in finance next year, it is very necessary
The schedule says that Pyotr Pavlovich Lukyanchenko
Thanks
Guys who went through the process of signing a contract with the company for practice (for work): what is the procedure for doing this? First, sign a contract with the CPPR, and then prepare all the documents (schedule, task, review) and send an application or in another way?
I got lost in the instructions in the LMS
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Jb3D2blLe-_NujwOCNTCN0N4_LY2C0i9Y8s_bh4Vkbc/edit
Please tell me. It is written that additional disciplines can be included in the limit of 60 credits. Does this mean that I can replace a course from the elective disciplines with some additional discipline?
When choosing a faculty \For your campus\ - means only for students. who are participating in the faculty where this subject is taught? Does
anyone know what it means when you click in the lms on a task for prkatika and this happens
and where to load the schedule and that's all?
Load everything into the project in the LMS, in the discipline. If the application for practice does not want to be in a good way, we always have an answer - to the project in the discipline
I understand, thank you very much!
guys, who else does Gromov have in practice? write to the bos plz
And how to pass the sop?
I answered everything, wrote the text, and here it is
I tried again, it doesn't work
And now?
I tried it via edge
It worked
Maybe my browser is blunted
No, there is some kind of authorization problem there, as far as I know
In practice: is it possible to sign and upload a PDF?
yes, you can
Thank you
, is it enough to send a scan to the cppr, or do you need to come in person?
and what kind of document are we talking about here?
Task
a scan of what?
Agreements
We need a paper version of the contract, 2 copies.
and the task and the schedule should be shipped only to the LMS? don't you need to bring it?
Are you talking about the contract?
you do not need to bring the task and the schedule, you need to upload it to the project in the LMS discipline
https://www.hse.ru/projectgroup/
https://cs.hse.ru/projectgroup
https://www.hse.ru/projectgroup/
Rimma Zakievna, the current design of the practice is a real madness
I would not want future generations to face something like this
+
This is the first time you have encountered just. Federal requirements, see laws and orders.\What exactly is difficult?
it is necessary to go to the ministry or to the Duma, pass laws, issue orders )) it
is difficult to formalize all this, fill it out, sign it from someone, and this is all get
used to, this is adult life.
(
And what to do if the CPPR does not have time to review the contract before the deadline? I gave the contract with the seals 3 days ago, there are no changes in the table
Fill out an application for practice to get into the order. \pSeyshe contracts are signed by the dean, we will issue them in a week. Let's hurry up
Yulia Getun said that you can skip the contract number if they don't have time to register
,
and if you sign up for an extra course, you can then unsubscribe?
question to the training office
Dear students!\Do not forget - Head of the production practice from the HSE Faculty of Economics - R. Z. Akhmetsafina, Associate Professor of the Department of PI.\If you specified Avdoshin S. M. or Lebedev S. A., correct it
If you have not yet chosen a place of practice, pay attention to Empathy (see the CPPR website)
And what should I do if the manager does not sign the individual task and schedule, because he says that I am not in practice, but on an internship? :)
We need to persuade him. Tell me that this is the right combination of useful and useful
what a bureaucrat!
He just says that this is a different contract, so he will not be the head, but I will be practicing in another place (this is Sberbank)
Usually practice and internship are combined. For the first time I hear that the manager is against
Dear students! \n Tell me, please, are there any scala fans ? I wanted to get a little advice and an expert opinion.. Please respond in L. S. 🙏
Is it possible not to attach a copy of the contract in the application for practice yet? I'm a smart girl and I didn't do a scan before taking it to the CPPR...
You can not attach it )
In the examples for the task and the schedule, Avdoshin SM is still standing, is this how it should be ?
What should I do if the signatures and seals have already been put, and Lebedev is listed as the head of the practice?
TO FROM? It's not so scary, fix it in the application to the LMS
No, I'm on all the documents , including the contract
Where in the contract is there a place for the head of the FCN?
Oh, yes, I'm sorry, everything is OK there
If I moved the practice a week ahead, is it possible to fill out the schedule and schedule directly when I start the practice? It is difficult to say what the schedule will be at the moment( You
can
Are there any examples of TK for practice?
At what point should I sound the alarm if my contract has not yet appeared in the register of contracts, but I took the contract to the CPPR a week ago?
The contract is signed, it remains to get a number. We will inform everyone
Good afternoon, this applies only to those whose deadlines have been postponed or can everyone be shipped FROM and schedule after 23?
It is possible for everyone
OK, thank you
What is the reason for this error? All fields are filled in.
Hello, do I understand correctly that we are filling out an item with production practice in the LMS ? It's just that there is still a pre-diploma and it's a little confusing.
Yes
There is also a question about the details of the contract in the item \ Employee of the organization coordinating the internship\. I understand correctly that if you are doing an internship at the FCN, you do not need to fill in this item?
Thank you )
In this field, you need to select from the drop-down list, and not write the
guys who will be practicing in a third-party company, write pliz to the bos, there are a couple of questions
Here you need to write, or rather choose, the person with the FKN, with whom you are undergoing an internship
I understand thank you )
Did you manage to get around it?
You need to select a manager from the drop-down list
And who is there to choose at all?
ARZ
a, Thank you
Do you have this form being sent now? I filled in all the fields, click Confirm and nothing happens for some reason
I just sent
It just happened
The contract number should be here? I will
post it a little later
Can I send you all the documents by email, except for the report? It's just that until July 26, it seems like we need to solve the issue with the transfer
With a statement about the transfer to the name of Shilov, of course
Or is it not needed?
Not obligatory
Hello! Tell me, do you need to fill in an individual task and a schedule with signatures today?
You can do it later, the main thing is an application for practice
It is better not to delay the application for the practice. Ask a question to the training office of Pak and Karpova on deadlines for applications.\ They will issue orders on practices by name
And what is written in the lms \If it is not known where you will undergo an internship (the company has not yet announced whether it accepts you), the training office will wait until June 26, 2021.\ - is it relevant?
Do we need seals somewhere, or are only the signatures of the head enough?
Yesterday, the office called this date
Sorry if you've already asked. \n\If I miss all the deadlines, will it be possible to close it with a certificate of illness so that there is no non-payment?
Seals are needed on the contract and in the appendices of the calendar plan, signatures of the head of the practice are enough
You can, like, write a statement about transferring the practice to other dates
It's still for the summer. And there is also an option with winter, and according to the certificate it is there
Good afternoon!\n\n I can go to an internship with a teacher of the FKN, but if his topic is not in the list of tasks for practice?\n\If yes, how do I do it? Does the teacher need to send the practice to the general task list?
Yes, you must send a completed contract without signatures and seals
If you took it to the cppr
And what kind of contract is this anyway?
HSE with the company or the Company with me?
I don't know about the second one at all
I didn't include\n\n in the sense that I had to do something about the contract at all, if the company was originally in the registry?
And if the practice is based on the means of an offer letter and an acceptance letter, then you need to respond to this letter somehow?
You do not need to add a topic to the general table. Fill out the application, the task and the calendar plan
Right. Does not apply
HSE with the company
No need
No need to react
Good afternoon! My supervisor is temporarily not in the Russian Federation and at best will sign all the documents sometime next week \pmnot it better to write an application for the transfer of practice, or is a small delay in downloading the signed documents not critical?
A small delay is not critical
Thanks!
I know a few things, in general, all signatures should be attached to the report, because that's when the assessment will be made. But to understand the situation, it is better, of course, in advance
Bondarev Andrey Olegovich\pEvdokimov Maxim Artemovich\pConnova Margarita Dmitrievna\pKrasnov Alexander Andreevich\pTibilov Taimuraz Valerievich\Psharipov Ainur Aivarovich\n
And as a head from the FKN, he should be indicated as a research associate, not a guest teacher
And what if, when trying to indicate a supervisor as a researcher, the lms diligently tries to change him to a visiting teacher? If I write a comment to the application , will it be counted?)\nProsto, for some reason, my supervisor is only in the database as a teacher
So, he is no longer a researcher. Then from FKN write me
Maxim Evdokimov and Andrey Bondarev corrected
Alexander Krasnov corrected
Konnova Margarita remained
she seems to have corrected it too
Well
Hello. If the dates are incorrectly specified for the practice, do you need to re-upload the documents in the lms project?
the main thing is to correct the application for practice, it is better to re-upload the documents too
Dear students!\n\n All corrections made by you are taken into account. The corrected rows / cells are colored green.\The values that are not corrected are colored yellow.I also ask you to pay attention to the comments in the cells - it says what you need to fix in the applications (I made corrections in the table, but the same values remained in the applications in the LMS).\pNado do all this as quickly as possible.\PSO notify me about the results necessarily.\pr. Z. Akhmetsafina, 01.07.2021
You should have 3 weeks of practice
I remember what they said about the specific number of days during which I should undergo an internship. I specified the required amount in the schedule
Does it say somewhere what to do if I missed everything and I get an academic debt?
So you don't get it, you're on the certificate
If you need to specify specifically for the order, for example, from 1 to 21, then ok\n in general, I would like to hear confirmation
Well, it turns out that this is a retake on the certificate. And in what form is it?
You don't get it. It is necessary to make an application for the postponement of the practice, send it to Shilov for signature.\n Fill out an application for practice.\Agreement or letters\Assignment and calendar plan
Thanks!
I wrote in the ad how to count dates, look at it.
If you have any questions, write
+79191639201
Want
PRACTICE ORDER\n Check in the Appendix whether everything is indicated correctly.\If you are not included in this order, watch for the release of new orders
Dear students! Professor Vadim Valerievich Podbelsky died. He was at the origins of Software Engineering at the HSE. RIP
Bright memory to him...\n\pa what happened? How did this happen, why?
In a communal apartment
Can I pick up the offer today?
It's Sunday today. Weekend
And can you put them in a separate cabinet (as it was with the contracts) so that you can pick them up during non-working hours?
They may get lost. By agreement
What time can I come to pick it up today?
up to 18 hours
channel,
chat,
Andrey, not a new center, but they landed us in the CPPR))
I know. But it seemed to me that then it would be less clear. And the word direction (as it was in the letters) sounds too much like something educational. Although it would be possible to write a new direction of the work of the CPPR
I don't like the word direction either. Students will also look for a new center on the FKN)), if you do not explain that this is a CPPR. Probably, I will have to add another P to the abbreviation ))
Yes, I did not think that someone could look for it on the HSE website. Changed to \the direction of the work of the cppr\ but the change is displayed only in the main channel
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1vpdnAYYkr2RVklMkDNMOjrqri6CzQAek?usp=sharing
Is it possible to sign scans of documents if the head is in another city?
and the deadline for uploading the report is tomorrow?
(if the deadline is July 1-21)
No, in October, well, not?
In September.
September 6, to be precise.
Well,
yes, you can. But it is better to sign a pdf
06.09.2021\nNo it is better not to delay
That is, insert a screenshot of the signature on the PDF?
in different editors, you can put a signature with a computer mouse
adobe acrobat
well, you can in different, I do well in pdf, so I wrote it like this ))\ pA the mouse does not work at all...
Hello, I wrote to cppr. cs on Friday, there is still no answer, can you answer, please?
And until what date do you need to bring a letter of acceptance in paper form to the cppr?
Until September. Upload the scan to the LMS now. The original can be sent by mail
Thanks
Please remind me on which documents do you need seals?
It is possible on all, except the report.
We are looking for game developers\n
https://www.notion.so/Game-developer-17d7f829e48446efbb6cc8ca87c72b80
Who should I send an application to change the course project for the 3rd year? The supervisor agreed on everything and signed it
On the trail. this week, a form will appear for changing the topic and / or the head of the course project. We will inform you.\nappearance - in the name of the academy. the head, prof. DPI V, V. Shilova
From September 1, only students who are not included in the "risk zone"will be able to attend classes. The mask mode is maintained in all buildings of the Tower.
All the
details, follow
the link,
Will it be possible to visit all couples remotely in our country?
+
And, by the way, can a person who has a criterion, on the contrary, visit online?
+ \ pochen is a good and important question
You can at least not upload the status confirmation to the ELK, 4 picture
It is better to download, everyone checks it, there may be trouble
Uh,
I think there are unlikely to be problems with this, especially if it is organized online for the unvaccinated
It's just that we need to include both people who live abroad and those who work 40 hours. It is quite easy to visit even all couples and at the same time have time to work, but the time on the road to the university can simply deprive people of such an opportunity. Of course, from a formal point of view, this is not important, but from a human point of view, of course, otherwise
(before covid, people somehow lived)
Yes, I understand, but it's about the fact that now it will not be possible to rebuild dramatically
Including skipping couples for the sake of work
Well, by the way, there were a lot of people who had this
And here there is an opportunity not to miss, but to watch online
with covid, it became much easier to do this
⚡ ️Acceptance of applications for exchange programs has opened️ \ n \ n
https://studyabroad.hse.ru/catalogue/
Is there now an opportunity to get windows 10 by corporate mail? On Azure for Edu, there seems to be no such thing, it
should be possible, but it is somehow limited there
The form was not sent to the post office, or is it somewhere in the lms?
there was no
registration by the link yet,
Good evening, I have such a question.On August 13, Sobyanin canceled the decree on mandatory vaccination of 60% of employees and permanent PCR tests.\n\n Did this somehow affect the tower? Will unvaccinated couples be allowed to visit?
Not yet
In general, 1) We are not employees, 2) We do not obey Sobyanin (as well as the Ministry of Education and Science, by the way)
Very, very, very sorry,
Get vaccinated)
No) Rejoice

https://www.hse.ru/our/news/496801328.html
Wheeeeee!
Do I understand correctly that full-time classes have no alternative?
> no more than 50 people will be able to stay in one classroom, at least a quarter of the classes will be organized in a synchronous remote format.
Cool!
Everything returns to the 4 module format. That is, we can at least have a full distance
*I'm waiting and I believe in it*
+
+
+
It is unlikely to be for the 4th year, I was told from the UO that I should come :(
You meant \it is unlikely to be for the 1st course\?) Why should
we be full-time?
Not for our, well, I could not come, someone can work from home and study ...
+
+
-
Who can tell you where to find an example of a practice report?
See the approximate content of the report, you have it in the task
Good afternoon! Actually, I wanted to go online. The audience was booked just in case.
and what is more convenient for you?
Online that
's great. Today, however, we were informed that everyone goes to classes offline. But there are a lot of online classes in the schedule
(many have everything, to be precise) a
lot (everything)
+
Ideally, everything should be online, because many people are already working)
I agree
+ Will
you be from home or in the classroom?
when and how, but more often not from the audience
Just if from the audience, I would be happy to come to you ... Eh...
if you knew how much I missed full-time classes... Even taking into account the fact that I'm working now...
and where do you work, if it's not a secret?
Ronald McDonald's
1) you can re-send\n2) it is better to sign
Thank you, Nikolai! 4 course, yes,
rename another IMPORTANT thing, pliz
I can
At the moment, the practice page is not clickable, where to fill the docks? (
Isn't it in the 3rd course?
oh) thank you)
Good evening! I found out that in my report, the assessment from the head of the company is in the column for the assessment from the FCN. It will no longer be possible to get a new signature of the manager. If there will be noticeable traces of correction, is this a big problem?
Vasily, don't fix it, we'll figure it out. Nothing wrong
Rimma Zakievna, what should I do if I just found out that I made a mistake with the head in the order for practice? (he indicated the director of the organization to whose name the offer letter was sent, and not the direct manager)
It is unlikely that something can be corrected in the order now. \ppprobuy to sign the review and report from the director of the organization.\ n You can provide a review and a report with two signatures - the real head of the practice and the director
We were not given such information
That is, it is necessary to find and attach an NDA agreement?
I will look at the report, write comments.
what kind of assurance about the circumstances do
you not need, Yandex has a contract
Why not? The contract is not necessary, but it was necessary
Exactly, it is in the annex to the contract
Okay
What should I do if I gave an acceptance and an assurance about the circumstances to the cppr, and did not make a scan? Can I not download it?
So it was necessary to have it even before the start of practice, now why again?
It didn't work out before the start)
Well, you passed
Well, yes, but there are projects for downloading in the lms
So these are the old ones, they are just all up to today
So you don't need to download them?
If you have given applications to the CPPR, write about it in notepad and upload this file to the project so that we know.\ pCPPR makes scans of all documents for registration in the document management system, we will find the scans at home
Everything is already closed there, nothing can be sent
Today we will open until Friday
Now while the LMS is lying down
https://forms.gle/TGJUBVvd7D57koKPA
Tell me, if I chose the course of the SADA at work, then after receiving an assessment, I can bring it to the training office and count it as an elective?\Or do I also need to fill out a form and be selected from the FCN?
We should ask Pak TA
And who can I turn to if couples crossed paths on Tuesday in the specialization of industrial software engineering? Natalia Devisheva does not answer
She answered me, said that the overlap will be eliminated by next week
And they will return the first pair?
we are on different courses, it seems
No, this is not about sociology
.
They said about sociology the problem is being solved
in 181 groups sociology suddenly jumped to 4 pairs instead of the first one
I understand about the intersection of the complexity of computing and system engineering,
did
you answer that is not about specialization?
And about this and about that
I reported about both overlays
and the problem is not solved with the right?\pu we have a couple in Google dock on Mondays, and in ruza on Tuesdays, in yesterday's letter it was only about groups like
https://t.me/joinchat/hbEhDkzWB29lMTYy
Last year I saw information that it is possible to issue an electronic version of the certificate for the military enlistment office (although it appeared after I went to the second department and spent an hour in line). \n\psey now I can't find anywhere, this opportunity is no longer there, or will it appear again later?
This question is sent to the training office. As far as I know, the curator of the 4th course is Yulia Oris. Consider yourself lucky.
I finally got through to the number of the second department, and they told me \the number you dialed is not serviced\ and reset it)))\n\pTak that apparently I will go to them today, since I need to take a student, and he needs to get help\n\If someone has more questions, so that I ask them there-write
Well, gentlemen, I went to the second department.\n\nThe phone is really theirs, and local employees really answer it like that, several more people there said that they were answered the same way.\n\n At the same time, only one of the two employees who are engaged in these certificates there works-why didn't they tell me\n\nNo and that's not all!The head of the second department, whose mail is indicated in the contacts , is dismissed, and in addition to receiving a certificate, it must also be signed somewhere on the Cover\n\pA in addition, the schedule indicated on their website and in all other places - also invalid\n\pNu and yes, if someone suddenly doubted - there is a stable +- 30 people in total sitting in the queue at the entrance and on the floor where the certificate is issued.\n\n At the same time, today we collect studaks, they will be given back again at the end of September, and the certificate to the military enlistment office should be taken to October 1, but to get a certificate for all data, a studak is needed (but someone says that you can just use your passport)\n\It is impossible to confuse the information whether it is possible without a student, since the only two existing contacts of the second department do not work, and you need to sit for two hours to learn something live
Yulia Oris, by the way, replied to me that the training office has no other information
Please tell me where you can contact with this information except for the red button, and then you don't want to join the army this year)))
I am also very interested in the question of what prevents me from making inquiries online as well as in the UO, given that no special information is needed for this, and the second department is one for all (!) buildings and all (!) courses, despite the fact that the registration of this certificate for first-timers takes 15 minutes, and for the next courses +-2, and the queue for all is one\nNo this is already, as I understand it, utopia
You say this when they do not have a common database for the details of transferring the payment of the work of the UA and the scholarship?) I
furiously plusu
Do you have such a VK that you need to wait until 01.10, or are these some new rules this year? It
seems that it was always necessary
Perhaps this is one of my freaks, but in principle it is useful
In my case, it has always been the
competition of students ' research papers (R & D
from September 1 to October 15
https://www.hse.ru/news/science/501483643.html
I would like to know, here is some strange information
No later than 7 days in advance — this is September 17)
It seems that something is wrong here
And this is for what date of the commission?
29
It's kind of weird there. The rest of the numbers were changed, and this was left unchanged
Apparently, this is just a small mistake
Yes, I will inform the performers